# Chunk 51 of 140
---

The large pools in area 7 have collapsible walls that can 
be yanked out of place to release a surge of water down 
the main passage of the lair. In the round after the goblins 
in area 7 are signaled by the lookout in area 5, they start 
knocking away the supports. In the following round on the 
goblins’ initiative count, a water surge pours from area 7 
down to area 1 . 

The passage is suddenly filled with a mighty roar, as a huge 
surge of rushing water pours down from above! 

The flood threatens all creatures in the tunnel. (Creatures 
on the bridge at area 5 are out of danger, as are any 
characters successfully climbing the cavern walls.) Any 
creature within 10 feet of the disused passage at area 
4 or the steps leading up to area 3 can attempt a DC 10 
Dexterity saving throw to avoid being swept away. A 
creature that fails to get out of the way can attempt a DC 
15 Strength saving throw to hold on. On a failed save, the 
character is knocked prone and washed down to area 1, 
taking ld6 bludgeoning damage along the way. 

The goblins in area 7 can release a second flood by 
opening the second pool, but they don’t do this unless the 
goblin on the bridge tells them to. The goblin on the bridge 
waits to see if the first flood got rid of all the intruders 
before calling for the second to be released. 

6. Goblin Den 

The Cragmaw raiders stationed in the hideout use this 
area as a common room and barracks. 

This large cave is divided in half by a ten-foot-high 
escarpment. A steep natural staircase leads from the lower 
portion to the upper ledge. The air is hazy with the smoke of 
a cooking fire, and pungent from the smell of poorly cured 
hides and unwashed goblins. 

Six goblins inhabit this den, and one of them is a leader 
with 12 hit points. The five ordinary goblins tend the 
cooking fire in the lower (northern) part of the cave near 
the entrance passage, while the leader rests in the upper 
(southern) part of the cave. 

Sildar Hallwinter, a human warrior, is held prisoner 
in this chamber. He is securely bound on the southern 
ledge of the cavern. The goblins have been beating and 
tormenting him, so he is weak and at 1 hit point. 

The goblin leader, Yeemik, is second-in-command 
of the whole hideout. If he sees that the characters are 
getting the upper hand, he grabs Sildar and drags him 
over to the edge of the upper level. “Truce, or this human 
dies!” he shouts. 

Yeemik wants to oust Klarg and become the new boss. If 
the adventurers agree to parley, Yeemik tries to convince 
them to kill Klarg in area 8, promising to release Sildar 
when they bring back the bugbear’s head. Sildar groggily 
warns the characters that they shouldn’t trust the goblin, 
and he’s right. If the characters take the deal, Yeemik tries 
to force them to pay a rich ransom for Sildar even after 
they complete their part of the bargain. 


PART 1: GOBLIN ARROWS