# Chunk 80 of 140
---

Ask the players to tell you the party’s marching order, so 
that you know which characters are in the lead and who’s 
bringing up the rear. When the party camps, ask which 
characters are on watch. This information is important if 
the party encounters something dangerous. 

The Triboar Trail is not safe. As the adventurers travel 
throughout this area, they might stumble across hungry 
beasts, greedy bandits, or vicious monsters. Check for 
encounters once during the day and once at night by 
rolling a d20. On a roll of 17-20, an encounter takes place. 
Roll a dl2 and consult the Wilderness Encounters table to 
determine what the party meets. 

When an encounter occurs, and the adventurers gain 
XP if they defeat the monsters. Each creature’s stat block 
has the XP value for one monster of that sort. Multiply that 
value by the number of creatures encountered, then divide 
the total equally among the characters. 


Wilderness Encounters 


Day Roll 

Night Roll 

Result 

1-2 

1-3 

Stirges (1 d8 + 2) 

— 

4 

Ghouls (1 d4 + 1) 

3-4 

— 

Ogre (1) 

5-6 

5 

Goblins (ld6 + 3) 

7-8 

6 

Hobgoblins (1 d4 + 

9-10 

7-8 

Ores (ld4 + 2) 

11 

9-10 

Wolves (ld4 + 2) 

12 

11-12 

Owlbear (1) 


Stirges. These flying predators drain the blood of their 
victims and are drawn to the light of campfires at night. 
Ghouls . These undead humans hunger for living flesh. 
Ogre. The ogre is looking for an easy kill. It is too stupid 
to flee once combat is joined. 


27 

PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 




If the characters exercise caution and remember what 
they’ve come for, they will be able to speak with the 
banshee. When the characters enter the shelter, read 
the following: 

A home of sorts is sheltered within the dome ofwoven 
branches. It is sparsely furnished with chests, shelves, a 
table, and a reclined couch, all of it old and of elven craft. 

Agatha senses the characters’ intrusion and manifests 
shortly after they enter her home. 

The air grows cold, and a powerful feeling of dread grips you. 

A cold, pale light flickers in the air, rapidly taking on the form 
of a female elf, her hair and robes waving in a spectral wind. 
She might have been beautiful once, but a hateful expression 
twists her features now. “Foolish mortals,” she snarls. “What 
do you want here? Do you not know it is death to seek me out?” 

If the characters are rude, disrespectful, or threatening, 
Agatha scowls and disappears. She does not attack them, 
nor does she return if the characters call out to her. 


Goblins . The goblins know the location of Cragmaw 
Castle and can provide directions if they are captured and 
threatened. Each one carries a pouch containing ldlO cp.