# Chunk 63 of 140
---

She then offers the characters 100 gp to eliminate the 
Redbrand leader, whom the outlaws call Glasstaff, and 
bring her any correspondence found in the leader’s 
quarters. Halia doesn’t reveal that she wants to take over 
the Redbrand operation herself. A DC 1 5 Wisdom (Insight) 
check indicates she has ulterior motives for wanting the 
Redbrand leader dead. 




Joining the Zhentarim 

If the party disposes of the Redbrand leader, Halia 
Thornton approaches certain members of the group to 
urge them to join the Zhentarim. She speaks with those 
who share the Zhentarim’s pursuits, such as wealth and 
power. Even if the party wipes out the Redbrand gang, 
Halia might still extend the offer in an effort to gain friends 
(and spies) within the party. If a character agrees, Halia 
gives the individual the title of Fang. 

Alderleaf Farm 

A wise female halfling of forty-five, Qelline Alderleaf is 
a pragmatic farmer who seems to know everything that 
goes on in town. She is a kind host, and is willing to let the 
characters stay in her hayloft if they don’t want to stay at 
the Stonehill Inn. 

Carp’s Story. Qelline’s son, Carp, is a spirited and 
precocious halfling lad often years. He is enchanted by the 
idea of being an adventurer and says that he was playing 
in the woods near Tresendar Manor when he found a 
secret tunnel in a thicket. A couple of “big ugly bandits” 
came out of the tunnel when he was there, and met with 
a pair of Redbrands. They didn’t see him, but it was close. 
Carp thinks that the bandits have a secret lair under the 
old manor house. He can take the characters to the tunnel 
or provide them with directions to the location. The tunnel 
leads to area 8 in the Redbrand hideout. 

Quest: Reidoth the Druid. Qelline is a longtime friend 
of a druid named Reidoth. If she figures out that the 
characters are looking for specific sites in the area, such 
as Cragmaw Castle or Wave Echo Cave, she suggests that 
they visit Reidoth and ask for his help, “since there’s not an 
inch of the land he doesn’t know.” She tells the characters 
that Reidoth recently set out for the ruins of a town called 
Thundertree, just west of the Neverwinter Wood. The 
ruins are about fifty miles northwest of Phandalin, and 
she provides directions so the characters can easily find 
the place. If the party pursues this quest, see “Ruins of 
Thundertree” (page 30). 

Shrine of Luck 

Phandalin’s only temple is a small shrine made of stones 
taken from the nearby ruins. It is dedicated to Tymora, 
goddess of luck and good fortune.