# Chunk 66 of 140
---

More a castle than a house, Tresendar Manor stands at 
the east edge of town on a low hillside amid woods and 
thickets. The ancient manor has long been abandoned, 
but its cellars have been converted into a Redbrand 
stronghold. If the characters investigate this place, they 
find the entrance to the Redbrand hideout. 

Redbrand Ruffians 

Within a day or so of the adventurers’ arrival in Phandalin, 
a confrontation with the Redbrands becomes inevitable. 
This can happen in a number of different ways: 

• After speaking with a number of NPCs in town, the 
characters decide to confront the Redbrands at the 
Sleeping Giant tap house. 

• The characters decide to investigate Tresendar Manor. 
Skip the encounter and go straight to “Redbrand 
Hideout.” 

• If the characters show no interest in the Redbrands, a 
gang of the ruffians seeks them out and picks a fight in 
street. Run this encounter as the characters are leaving 
one of the locations in the town. 

Confrontation 

If the characters confront the Redbrands at the 
Sleeping Giant, read: 


The Sleeping Giant is a ramshackle taproom at the east end 
of town. Four human ruffians linger on the covered porch, 
perched on empty ale barrels or leaning against the wall. They 
all wear grimy scarlet cloaks, their sullen stares fixed on you 
as you approach. 

One of the thugs spits on the ground. “Well, well,” he 
snarls. "Here’s a whole pack of little puppies. What do you 
want, puppies? Come here to bark at us?” 

If the Redbrands confront the characters in the 
street, read: 

As you head back into the street, you see four armed ruffians 
waiting for you. All of them are humans wearing grimy red 
cloaks, their hands on their weapons as they watch you. 

One of the ruffians spits on the ground. “Time for you to 
move on, strangers. Give us your stuff, and be on your way.” 

Continue the insults and baiting as long as you like. The 
Redbrands attack in a round or two if the characters 
don’t. Neither side is surprised, because it’s obvious that a 
fight is brewing. 

The group consists of four Redbrand ruffians. If 
three of them are defeated, the last one flees toward 
Tresendar Manor. 

Developments 

Redbrands who are captured or charmed by the 
characters can impart useful information. (See the “What 
the Redbrands Know” sidebar on page 20.) Townmaster 
Harbin Wester won’t want to keep Redbrand prisoners 
until he knows the whole gang has been defeated, 
but the characters can easily persuade or intimidate 
him into locking up any prisoners they capture for at 
least a few days. 

If the characters kill the ruffians, most members of the 
town are grateful. One exception is the townmaster, who 
fears Redbrand retaliation. Harbin doesn’t punish the 
characters but warns them not to cause trouble. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 400 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the ruffians. 

Jk k. 

Do the Players Need Direction?