# Chunk 103 of 140
---

Open Pit Climbing up or down the wall of the pit 
without a rope requires a successful DC 15 Strength 
(Athletics) check. A character who fails the check by 5 
or more falls and takes ld6 bludgeoning damage per 10 
feet fallen, landing prone at the bottom. The tunnel at the 
bottom of the pit leads northwest toward area 2 and east 
toward area 3. 

Treasure 

Tharden wears a pair of boots of striding and springing. In 
his haste to explore the rest of Wave Echo Cave, Nezznar 
overlooked them. 

2. Mine Tunnels 

This maze of passages is an old section of Wave Echo 
Cave’s original mine site. 


This area consists of numerous intersecting passages. 

The ceilings here are only six feet high, and several of the 
passages end in partially excavated rock faces. 

The dead-end passages are places where the miners gave 
up and decided to move on to other spots. Patiently lurking 
in one is an ochre jelly. When the party enters this section 
of the mine, the jelly begins to stalk the group, instinctively 
waiting for an opportunity to attack a lone target. 

3. Old Entrance 

The tunnel that runs south was the original entrance to 
Wave Echo Cave, but it was buried by the destruction that 
wracked the mines centuries ago. A pitched battle was 
fought here when the ores stormed the mines. The dead 
still lie where they fell. 

Many tunnels intersect at this natural, thirty-foot-high cavern. 
The walls are carved with simple reliefs showing dwarf and 
gnome miners hard at work. Below them, nearly two dozen 
skeletons in rusted scraps of armor are scattered across the 
cavern floor. Some are dwarf skeletons, while others are ore 
remains. Haifa dozen large brass lanterns stand in niches or 
on ledges around the cavern, but none are lit. 

Clinging to the ceiling like bats are ten stirges. The 
monsters find scant living prey in the mines, and they 
are ravenous. If the characters are looking down at 
the skeletons on the floor, the stirges are likely get the 
drop on them. Any character who isn’t watching the 
ceiling is surprised unless his or her passive Wisdom 
(Perception) score is higher than the stirges’ Dexterity 
(Stealth) check total (roll once for all of them). Characters 
who aren’t surprised hear a flapping noise as the stirges 
descend to attack. 

The lanterns and the carvings of miners at work were 
meant as a welcome to newcomers. 

4. Old Guardroom 

This guardroom once protected the nearby entrance to 
the mine, but it was overrun early in the fighting when the 
ores attacked. 

Splintered stone benches and heaps of rubble from a 
partially collapsed ceiling fill this room. Amid ruined stone 
bunks and toppled weapon racks are the bones of several 
dwarves and ores. 

In the round after any living creature enters this chamber, 
the bones begin to stir and knit together, forming nine 
skeletons. They fight until destroyed. 

5. Assayers’ Office