# Chunk 72 of 140
---

The cavern continues for some distance to the south. You 
can make out several passages that open up offthe larger 
cavern, and what looks like a deep pit or crevasse in the floor. 

This room contains two secret doors, one leading to area 
6 and the other to area 12. See the “General Features” 
section (page 20) for more information on secret doors. 

Treasure 

Most of the provisions and goods here aren’t valuable, 
but lying among them are thirty beaver pelts (2 gp each). 
They were looted from a caravan on the Triboar Trail a 
few days ago. 

8. Crevasse 

The characters arrive here by one of three routes: the 
tunnel from area 1, the storeroom at area 7, or the rough- 
hewn passage to the south, which continues off the map 
for about one hundred feet and emerges from a tunnel in 
the woods south of Tresendar Manor. The passage is an 
excellent way to smuggle people or goods in and out of 
Phandalin without being seen, and is thus perfect for a 
gang of slavers and thieves. 

A cold breeze fills this large natural cavern, carrying with it 
the faint scent of decaying flesh. A crevasse divides the cavern 
and is flanked by two rough stone columns that support the 
twenty-foot-high ceiling. Two arched wooden bridges span 
the chasm. 


Bridges. These bridges are made of wooden planks and 
have no rails. The south one is rigged to collapse when 
a creature weighing more than 50 pounds moves across 
it. A character next to the bridge can discern that the 
construction is faulty with a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. Any creature can use an action 
to dislodge one end of either bridge, dropping it into 
the crevasse. 

Crevasse. This steep-sided fissure is 5 to 10 feet wide 
and 20 feet deep. Its rough walls are easily climbed 
without an ability check. A creature that falls into the 
crevasse takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage and lands prone 
in a jumble of rubble that is difficult terrain (see “Difficult 
Terrain” in the rulebook). 

The bottom of the crevasse feels unnaturally cold. When 
viewed with a detect magic spell, the area emanates a faint 
necromantic aura. The magic causes all organic matter in 
the crevasse to age and decompose at half the normal rate. 

Currently heaped at the bottom among broken and well- 
gnawed bones is the half-eaten body of Thel Dendrar, 
the woodcarver of Phandalin who was murdered by 
the Redbrands. The outlaws left his corpse here for the 
nothic to feed on. 

Treasure 

The nothic keeps its hoard in a battered wooden chest 
hidden in a cubbyhole at the bottom of the crevasse, under 
the north bridge. The chest can’t be seen from the edge of 
the crevasse, but is obvious to any character who descends