# Chunk 48 of 140
---

to do next, setting up a camp, cutting down brush, and so 
on— the goblins in area 2 notice and attack them through 
the thicket, which provides the goblins with three-quarters 
cover (see the rulebook for rules on cover). 

2. Goblin Blind 

When the characters cross to the east side of the stream, 
they can see around the screening thickets to area 2. This 
is a goblin guard post, though the goblins here are bored 
and inattentive. 

On the east side of the stream flowing from the cave mouth, a 
small area in the briar thickets has been hollowed out to form 
a lookout post or blind. Wooden planks flatten out the briars 
and provide room for guards to lie hidden and watch the 
area — including a pair of goblins lurking there right now! 

Two goblins are stationed here. If the goblins notice 
intruders in area 1, they open fire with their bows, 
shooting through the thickets and probably catching the 
characters by surprise. If the goblins don’t notice the 
adventurers in area 1, they spot them when they splash 
across the stream, and neither side is surprised. 

Characters moving carefully or scouting ahead might be 
able to surprise the goblin lookouts. Have each character 
who moves ahead make a Dexterity (Stealth) check 
contested by the goblins’ passive Wisdom (Perception) 
score to avoid being surprised. See the rulebook for more 
information on ability check contests. 

Thickets. The thickets around the clearing are difficult 
terrain, but they aren’t dangerous— just annoying. They 
provide half cover to creatures attacking through them. 
(See “Difficult Terrain” and “Cover” in the rulebook for 
more information.) 

3. Kennel 

The Cragmaws keep a kennel of foul-tempered wolves that 
they are training for battle. 

Just inside the cave mouth, a few uneven stone steps lead 
up to a small, dank chamber on the east side of the passage. 
The cave narrows to a steep fissure at the far end, and is filled 
with the stench of animals. Savage snarls and the sounds of 
rattling chains greet your ears where two wolves are chained 
up just inside the opening. Each wolf’s chain leads to an iron 
rod driven into the base of a stalagmite. 

Three wolves are confined here. They can’t reach 
targets standing on the steps, but all three attack any 
creature except a goblin that moves into the room (see the 
“Developments” section). Goblins in nearby caves ignore 
the sounds of fighting wolves, since they constantly snap 
and snarl at each other. 

A character who tries to calm the animals can attempt 
a DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. On a success, 
the wolves allow the character to move throughout the 
room. If the wolves are given food, the DC drops to 10. 

Fissure. A narrow opening in the east wall leads to a 
natural chimney that climbs 30 feet to area 8. At the base 
of the fissure is rubbish that’s been discarded through 


PART 1: GOBLIN ARROWS