# Chunk 113 of 140
---

This room formerly belonged to the priest in charge 
of Dumathoin’s temple (area 19), but Nezznar has 
appropriated it for use as a cell. The figure lying on the 
floor is Nundro, a dwarf commoner and the youngest 
of the three Rockseeker brothers. Nezznar spared him 
because he thought the dwarf might know more about the 
mine than he admitted. The drow has interrogated Nundro 
harshly once or twice a day ever since capturing him. 

Developments 

Nundro is grateful if the adventurers rescue him, and he 
offers to tag along for the duration of their stay in Wave 
Echo Cave. Nundro doesn’t know any more about the 
layout than the characters, so he hasn’t much to offer 
in the way of useful information. See the “NPC Party 
Members” sidebar (page 1 1) for tips on running Nundro. 


50 

PART 4: WAVE ECHO CAVE 




If the characters deal with Nezznar and his minions, this 
area serves as a safe and comfortable place to rest before 
continuing their explorations of the mine. 

Awarding Experience Points 

If Nundro is rescued and survives the adventure, divide 

200 XP equally among the characters in the party. 

Conclusion 

With hard work and a little luck, the adventurers have 
defeated the Black Spider and undone his destructive 
plots, cleared Phandalin of the ruffians who threatened its 
people, and reclaimed the lost mine of Wave Echo Cave. 
Their deeds will be long remembered in this corner of the 
Sword Coast. In years to come, the restored mines of the 
Phandelver’s Pact will bring great riches to Phandalin and 
help establish peace and prosperity in the area. 

Gundren and Nundro Rockseeker take over 
administration of the new mine. For the adventurers’ 


service to their family, they gladly award the party a 10 
percent share of the mine’s profits. If the characters want 
to remain in Phandalin and perhaps restore Tresendar 
Manor or establish homes of their own, the people of the 
area are glad to have them stay. Even if they choose to 
move on in search of new adventures, they’ll always have a 
warm welcome in Phandalin. 

By the end of the adventure, the characters should be 
5th level. If your players wish to continue playing their 
characters, you can use the contents of this set to create 
your own adventures; the mysterious map found in area 14 
of Wave Echo Cave provides one possible adventure hook, 
but feel free to explore other ideas using the monsters, 
magic items, and locations in this adventure. If you want 
to create adventures for characters higher than 5th 
level, you’ll need the basic rules online or the advanced 
rulebooks: the Player's Handbook, Dungeon Master’s 
Guide, and Monster Manual. 



Appendix A: Magic Items