# Chunk 92 of 140
---

Brughor’s band plundered several homesteads farther 
north on their way to Wyvern Tor. An unlocked treasure 
chest in the cave holds 750 cp, 180 sp, 62 ep, 30 gp, and 
three vials of perfume (10 gp each). 

Awarding Experience Points 
Defeating the monsters at Wyvern Tor completes a quest 
given to the party by Townmaster Harbin Wester in 
Phandalin, and it delivers on a promise to Hamun Kost 
at Old Owl Well. Divide 1,250 XP equally among the 
characters if the party deals with the ores and the ogre. 

Cragmaw Castle 

The Cragmaw tribe consists of marauding bands and rival 
goblinholds scattered throughout the area of the Triboar 
Trail and the Neverwinter Wood. However, one chieftain is 
grudgingly recognized by all others as supreme: King Grol 
of Cragmaw Castle. 

Cragmaw Castle is not a goblin construction, nor is 
that the structure’s original name. Raised by a talented 
wizard-noble of old Phalorm, an ancient realm that once 
controlled much of the North, the stronghold consists of 
seven overlapping towers; however, its upper levels have 
long since collapsed to heaps of crumbling masonry. Only 
the ground floor is still sound enough to be habitable. 

General Features 

The centuries have not been kind to Cragmaw Castle. 

The goblins have shored up the weakest areas beneath its 
falling towers with crude timbers, but it’s only a matter of 
time before the structure collapses completely. 

Ceilings . Ceilings are 15 feet high unless 
noted otherwise. 

Doors. Interior doors are made of wood reinforced with 
iron bands. They have neither locks nor keyholes. It takes 
a successful DC 15 Strength check to break down a door 
that is barricaded shut. 

Floors. Cracked and uneven flagstones conceal a dirt 
floor underneath. 


PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 


Light A small amount of natural light filters through the 
arrow slits around the castle. During the day, this provides 
dim light in most areas. At night, all areas are dark. 

Walls. Exterior walls and load-bearing interior walls 
are 5 feet thick, with 3 feet of mortared fill sandwiched 
between 1-foot-thick courses of hard stone blocks. Interior 
walls are 1 -foot-thick worked stone. 

Arrow slits in the castle walls are 10 feet above the 
outside ground level, 4 feet above the interior floor level, 8 
inches wide, and 4 feet high. A creature on one side of an 
arrow slit gains three-quarters cover against attacks from 
the other side (see “Cover” in the rulebook). 

L Castle Entrance 

The main gates between areas 1 and 2 are made 
of bronze-covered wood, but they are corroded 
and collapsed. 

The castle consists of seven crumbling towers of different 
sizes and heights, but the upper stories are all in varying 
states of collapse. A short flight of steps leads up to a terrace 
in front of the main entryway. Past the wreckage of a pair of 
sundered doors lies a shadowed hall. Round towers loom 
over the entranceway, with dark arrow slits looking down on 
the terrace.