# Chunk 75 of 140
---

This area serves as the headquarters and meeting room 
for the Redbrands. When there is no official business 
to discuss, it doubles as a common room where the 
stronghold guards can relax while off duty. 

A character who listens at the door with a successful DC 
10 Wisdom (Perception) check hears the villains within 
engaged in a game of knucklebones. This makes for a 
mysterious rattling sound, followed by shouts and groans 
and a sudden gabble of voices as wagers are paid. If the 
characters burst into the room, they automatically surprise 
its occupants. 

Several worn tables and chairs are scattered around this large 
room. Wooden benches are drawn up against walls decorated 
with draperies of brown and red, and several ale kegs are 
propped up and tapped. 

Four tough-looking human warriors wearing scarlet cloaks 
are gathered around one of the tables. A stack of coins and 
trinkets is heaped upon the tabletop between them. 


PART 2: PHANDALIN 


Four Redbrand ruffians are drinking and playing 
knucklebones when the characters enter. The game isn’t 
far from turning acrimonious, as most of them do. The 
dice are loaded, and the ruffian to which they belong is 
naturally winning. All four have been drinking heavily, and 
they are poisoned (see the appendix in the rulebook for the 
effects of being poisoned). 

The Redbrands immediately recognize characters 
wearing scarlet cloaks as impostors. However, fast- 
talking characters might still be able to pass themselves 
off as “new recruits,” especially if they offer to join the 
game. If you don’t think the players are doing a great job 
roleplaying the deception, you can have the character 
who is doing most of the talking make a DC 10 Charisma 
(Deception) check to fool the Redbrands. 

Treasure 

The wealth in the room is all on the table, having been bet 
in the game. (Knocking over the table or mixing up all the 
enemies’ loot is a great way to distract them for a short 
time.) The total amounts to 75 cp, 55 sp, 22 ep, 15 gp, and 
a gold earring set with a tiny ruby (30 gp). 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 400 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the Redbrands in this room. 


Iarno has left his rat familiar here to watch for intruders. 
The rat shares a telepathic bond with its master, and it 
sends a brief warning message to Iarno as soon as it 
detects intruders. The rat moves at a speed of 20 feet and 
has AC 10, 1 hit point, and no effective attacks. If the rat is 
killed, it disappears. 

If the characters leave the rat unharmed, it follows them 
around as though curious or hungry. It might even feign 
affection for a character who feeds it, though it remains 
absolutely loyal to Iarno.