# Chunk 98 of 140
---

The creatures here keep watch from the arrow slit, so any 
characters creeping around the east side of the castle are 
likely to be spotted and attacked. 


PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 


39 



OwLBEAR 


A stone brazier full of coals glows in the middle of this small 
barracks. Four straw pallets are lined up along the east wall. 
The wall to the south has collapsed, but a barred wooden 
door in that direction is still clear. A curtain hangs in an 
archway to the north. 

Two hobgoblins stand guard in this room. They are smart, 
tough, and loyal to King Grol. At the start of combat, one 
hobgoblin runs to warn the king in area 14, then returns 2 
rounds later to rejoin the fray. 

This area was once a parlor for the castle’s human 
occupants, though its rotted furnishings were broken up 
by the Cragmaws and used for firewood. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 200 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the hobgoblins. 

13. Owlbear Tower 

The door to this room is held shut with a heavy wooden 
bar— a subtle warning that danger lies beyond. When the 
bar is lifted, the creature in the room awakens and lets out 
a terrible roar. 

The arrow slits here are shuttered, leaving the room 
dark. The boxed text assumes that the characters have 
darkvision or a light source. 


The upper floors of this tower have collapsed to create a 
hollow silo at least thirty feet high, and the upper reaches 
of the room are lost in shadows. Dust, rubble, and broken 
glass cover the floor, and old worktables and bookshelves lie 
strewn to the south. In the middle of the room is a hulking 
beast that looks like a mangy bear with an owl's head. It rears 
up and roars when it sees you. 

The Cragmaws have captured an owlbear and confined 
it to this tower. The room is kept dark to keep the beast 
calm, but King Grol doesn’t know what to do with it yet. 

If a character throws it fresh meat, the owlbear devours 
the food. Otherwise, it attacks the first creature it sees 
in the doorway. 

This room was once a library and workshop, but nothing 
of its original contents remains intact. 

Developments 

If the characters open the door and stay out of the 
owlbear’s way, it flees the castle (most likely through area 
1 1). The creature attacks anything that gets in its way. 

Treasure 

All that remains of the tower’s second floor is a jagged 
ledge, upon which sits a battered wooden chest. The chest 
is hard to see from the floor, requiring a successful DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check to notice. The chest is 
unlocked and contains 90 ep, 120 gp, a potion of healing, a 
scroll of silence, and a scroll of revivify. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 700 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the owlbear or releases it. 

14-. King’s Quarters 

Any character who listens at the door hears two voices in 
a heated discussion— a loud, growling voice demanding 
payment for something, and a silky smooth reply.