# Chunk 50 of 140
---

Any character who can see the bridge in area 5 might also 
notice the goblin guarding the bridge. Doing so requires 
a Wisdom (Perception) check contested by the goblins 
Dexterity (Stealth) check result. 

The goblin notices the characters if they carry any light 
or don’t use stealth as they approach the bridge. The 
goblin does not attack. Instead, it attempts to sneak away 
to the east to inform its companions in area 7 to release 
a flood (see the “Flood!” section of area 5). The goblin 
moves undetected if its Dexterity (Stealth) check exceeds 
the passive Wisdom (Perception) score of any character 
who might notice its movements. 

Western Passage. This passage is choked with rubble 
and has steep escarpments. Treat the area as difficult 
terrain (see “Difficult Terrain” in the rulebook). 

The ledge between the two escarpments is fragile. Any 
weight in excess of 100 pounds loosens the whole mass 
and sends it tumbling down to the east. Any creature 
on the ledge when it falls must make a DC 10 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage on a failure, 
or half as much damage on a success. The creature 
also falls prone on a failed save (see “Being Prone” in 
the rulebook). 

5. Overpass 

Where a high tunnel passes through the larger tunnel 
cavern below, the goblins have set up a bridge guard post. 

The stream passage continues up beyond another set of 
uneven steps ahead, bending eastward as it goes. A waterfall 
sounds out from a larger cavern somewhere ahead of you. 

If the characters didn’t spot the bridge while navigating 
area 4, they spot it now. Add: 

A rickety bridge spans the passage, connecting two tunnels 
that are 20 feet above the stream. 

One goblin stands watch on the bridge. It is hiding, 
and characters can spot it by succeeding on a Wisdom 
(Perception) check contested by the goblin’s Dexterity 
(Stealth) check. This guard is lazy and inattentive. If no 
characters are using light sources, each character can 
attempt a Dexterity (Stealth) check against the goblin’s 
passive Wisdom (Perception) score to creep by without 
being noticed. 

If the goblin spots the adventurers, it signals the goblins 
in area 7 to release a flood (see the “Flood!” section), then 
throws javelins down at the characters. 

Bridge. This bridge spans the passage 20 feet above the 
stream. It’s possible to climb up the cavern walls from the 
lower passage to the bridge. The 20-foot-high walls are 
rough but slick with spray, requiring a successful DC 15 
Strength (Athletics) check to climb. 

The bridge has an Armor Class (AC) of 5 and 10 hit 
points. If the bridge is reduced to 0 hit points, it collapses. 
Creatures on the collapsing bridge must succeed on a DC 
10 Dexterity saving throw or fall, taking 2d6 bludgeoning 
damage and landing prone (see “Being Prone” in the 
rulebook). Those who succeed hold onto the bridge and 
must climb it to safety. 


Flood!