# Chunk 53 of 140
---

If he is rescued and healed, Sildar Hallwinter remains 
with the party but is anxious to reach Phandalin as quickly 
as possible. He doesn’t have any weapons or armor, but 
he can take a shortsword from a defeated goblin or use a 
weapon loaned to him by a character. 

If Sildar joins the party, see the “NPC Party Members” 
sidebar for tips on how to run him. 

Treasure 

Yeemik carries a pouch containing three gold teeth (1 
gp each) and 15 sp. Sildar’s gear, along with Gundren 
Rockseeker, was taken to Cragmaw Castle. 


NPC Party Members 

An NPC might join the party, if only for a short time. Here are 
some tips to help you run an NPC party member: 

• Let the characters make the important decisions. They are the 
protagonists of the adventure. If the characters ask an NPC 
party member for advice or direction, remember that NPCs 
make mistakes too. 

• An NPC won’t deliberately put himself or herself in harm’s 
way unless there’s a good reason to do so. 

• An NPC won’t treat all party members the same way, which 
can create some fun friction. As an NPC gets to know the 
characters, think about which characters the NPC likes most 
and which ones the NPC likes least, and let those likes and 
dislikes affect how the NPC interacts with the party members. 

• In a combat encounter, keep the NPC’s actions simple and 
straightforward. Also, look for things that the NPC can do 
besides fighting. For example, an NPC might stabilize a dying 
character, guard a prisoner, or help barricade a door. 

• If an NPC contributes greatly to the party’s success in a 
battle, the NPC should receive an equal share of the XP 
earned for the encounter. (The characters receive less XP as a 
consequence.) 

• NPCs have their own lives and goals. Consequently, an NPC 
should remain with the party only as long as doing so makes 
sense for those goals. 

^ W 

7. Twin Pools Cave _ ___ 

If the goblins have drained either pool to flood the 
passage, adjust the following boxed text accordingly. 

This cavern is half filled with two large pools of water. A 
narrow waterfall high in the eastern wall feeds the pool, which 
drains out the western end of the chamber to form the stream 
that flows out of the cave mouth below. Low fieldstone walls 
serve as dams holding the water in. A wide exit stands to the 
south, while two smaller passages lead west. The sound of 
the waterfall echoes through the cavern, making it difficult 
to hear. 

Three goblins guard this cave. If the goblin in area 5 
spotted the characters and warned the goblins here, they 
are ready for trouble. The noise of the waterfall means that 
the creatures in area 8 can’t hear any fighting that takes 
place here, and vice versa. Therefore, as soon as a fight 
breaks out here, one goblin flees to area 8 to warn Klarg. 


PART 1 : GOBLIN ARROWS