# Chunk 121 of 140
---

The number of experience points a creature is worth 
is based on its Challenge. Typically, XP is awarded for 
defeating the monster. 

Traits 

Traits are special characteristics of the creature that are 
likely to be relevant in a combat encounter. 

Actions 

When a creature takes its action, it can choose from 
the options in the “Actions” section of its stat block. The 
rulebook describes other actions available to all creatures. 

Melee and Ranged Attacks 
The most common actions that a creature will take in 
combat are melee and ranged attacks. These can be spell 
attacks or weapon attacks, where the “weapon” might be a 
manufactured item or a natural weapon, such as a claw. 

Hit. Any damage or other effects that occur as a result of 
an attack hitting a target are described here. As the DM, 
you have the option of taking average damage or rolling 
the damage; for this reason, both the average damage and 
the die expression are presented. For example, a monster 
might deal 4 (ld8) slashing damage with its longsword. 
That notation means you can have the monster deal 4 
damage or you can roll ld8 to determine the damage. 

Reactions 

If a creature can do something unusual with its reaction, 
that information is contained here. Most creatures do 
not have special reactions, in which case this section is 
absent. Reactions are explained in the rulebook. 

Limited Usage 

Some special abilities— whether they are traits, actions, 
or reactions— have restrictions on the number of times 
they can be used. 

X/Day. The notation “X/Day” means a special ability 
can be used a certain number of times and that a monster 
must finish a long rest to regain expended uses. For 
example, “1/Day” means a special ability can be used once 
and that the monster must finish a long rest to use it again. 

Recharge X-Y. The notation “Recharge X-Y” means a 
monster can use a special ability once and that the ability 
then has a random chance of recharging during each 
subsequent round of combat. At the start of each of the 
monster’s turns, roll a d6. If the roll is one of the numbers 
in the recharge notation, the monster regains the use of 
the special ability. The ability also recharges when the 
monster finishes a short or long rest. 

For example, “Recharge 6” means a monster can use 
the special ability once. Then, at the start of the monster’s 
turn, it regains the use of that ability if it rolls a 6 on a d6.APPENDIX B: