# Chunk 111 of 140
---

Nezznar uses this room as his headquarters while he 
explores the mines and searches for the Forge of Spells. 

Six cracked marble pillars line the walls of this hall, at the 
north end of which stands a nine-foot-tall statue of a dwarf 
seated on a throne, a mighty stone warhammer across his 
lap. Large emeralds gleam in the statue’s eyes. 

The dust and debris covering the floor has been swept to 
one side, and a campsite of sorts now spreads in front of the 
statue. Haifa dozen bedrolls and packs are neatly arranged 
around a rough-built fire pit. A wooden table stands on the 
west side of the room between two pillars. 

If the room’s occupants are not aware of the characters as 
they enter, add the following: 

Two bugbears stand by the table, flanking a dark elf dressed 
in black leather armor and robes. He clutches a black staff 
with a carved spider at the top and frowns as he sees you. 

“It seems that I must deal with you myself. A pity it must 
end this way.” 

Nezznar the Black Spider is joined by four giant spiders 

that defend their master to the death. If they are expecting 
trouble, the spiders hide behind pillars, and Nezznar casts 
invisibility on himself and stands near the table. Make a 
Dexterity (Stealth) check for the spiders. When intruders 
appear, the spiders try to entangle them in webs before 
closing to melee range. Nezznar joins the fray on the 
round after the spiders attack. 

If the doppelganger from area 18 retreated to this 
area, it assumes the guise of Nundro Rockseeker so that 
Nezznar can use the “dwarf” as leverage to force the 
party’s surrender (although the drow won’t actually harm 
the doppelganger). See the “Roleplaying Nezznar” section 
for more information on the drow villain. 

Statue. The statue depicts Dumathoin, the dwarven god 
of mining. Any character who has proficiency in Religion 
recognizes the deity. The statue is beautifully carved, and 
its emerald eyes appear extremely valuable. However, 
the jewels are clever fakes made of worthless glass, as 
close inspection and a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check reveals. Nevertheless, a powerful 
spell protects them, and a detect magic spell reveals a 
strong aura of abjuration magic surrounding the statue. 

A character can climb the statue easily and pry a jewel 
loose with a successful DC 10 Strength check. However, if 
either eye is removed, the pillars that line the walls crack, 
triggering a ceiling collapse. Each creature in the room 
must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4dl0 


PART 4: WAVE ECHO CAVE 


49 



Nezznar the Black Spioer 


Developments 

The creatures in area 18 can hear sounds of combat in 
this room. If they haven’t already been dealt with, they 
arrive after 3 rounds and act immediately after Nezznar’s 
giant spiders in the initiative count.