# Chunk 107 of 140
---

Glittering minerals in the ceiling of this large cavern catch 
the light and send it back to create the impression of a starry 
night sky. Dozens of skeletons — many crushed under fallen 
debris — are scattered across the floor. 

The cave is large enough that it contains two freestanding 
structures. Each of these stone buildings is proportioned 
for human use, as opposed to the dwarf-sized doorways 
and furnishings you’ve seen elsewhere in the mines. Both 
structures have battered and blackened masonry walls, their 
double doors cracked and scorched. 

The cavern is divided by an escarpment, into which a flight 
of stairs has been cut. Passages lead out of this area to the 
north, south, and west. 

The damaged buildings are described in areas 14 and 
15. Minerals in the ceiling are pretty, but they are neither 
magical nor valuable. 

Any character proficient in Arcana can sense a subtle 
aura of magic in this cavern. (A detect magic spell reveals 
the same.) The aura becomes stronger as one approaches 
the northern building (area 15). 

14. Wizards’ Quarters 

The doors leading into this area are cracked, their iron 
hinges partially melted. Wrenching or smashing open the 
doors requires a successful DC 15 Strength check. 

Dust, ash, walls blackened by fire, and heaps of debris 
beneath the sagging ceiling show that this room was 
damaged by a destructive blast. The furnishings — tables, 
chairs, bookshelves, beds — are charred or splintered, but 
otherwise well preserved. A scorched iron chest stands near 
the foot of one of the beds. 

This room contains the restless spirit of the last wizard 
to die here: Mormesk the wraith. He is not immediately 
visible but rises up out of the floor when a living creature 
enters the room. 

Mormesk was a powerful mage until he met his end in 
the spell battle at the climax of the ore attack. Centuries 
of anger have poisoned his soul, transforming him into a 
hate-filled apparition. 

Mormesk leads the undead that haunt Wave Echo Cave. 
The wraith spends his time here because the treasure 
he had amassed in life is in the scorched chest (see the 
“Treasure” section). No longer corporeal, he cannot touch 
or possess the wealth he enjoyed in life. 

This building served as a guesthouse for visiting 
wizards working in the Forge of Spells (area 15), most of 
whom were humans from nearby cities. The furnishings 
are all human proportioned. 


Roleplaying Mormesk 

Mormesk speaks in grave whispers. When the wraith first 
rises up from the floor, it says, “Your presence is offensive 
to me, your life forfeit. My treasures are mine alone, not 
yours to plunder!” If the characters make no attempt to 
reason with the wraith, it attacks.