# Chunk 58 of 140
---

Owns a trading post; owes money to the 
party if you are using the “Meet Me in 
Phandalin” adventure hook 
Member of the Order of the Gauntlet with a 
quest for the party 

Runs a trading post and offers a reward for 
retrieving her supplies 
Member of the Zhentarim with a quest for 
the party 

Helpful halfling farmer whose son, Carp, 
knows a secret way into the Redbrands’ 
hideout 

Elf cleric of Tymora and Harper agent with a 
quest for the party 

Townmaster of Phandalin with a quest for the 
party 

Member of the Lords’ Alliance with two 
quests for the party 


Roleplaying Phandalin NPCs 

If you’re not sure how to run an NPC, a good way to start 
is to have the character introduce himself or herself, 
welcome the adventurers to Phandalin, and ask who they 
are and what they want. You don’t need to be an actor or 
stand-up comedian to get good drama or humor out of your 
NPCs, but if you want to ham it up, here’s some advice: 

• Relax. Don’t worry about impressing your players with 
your thespian skills (or lack thereof). 

• Get inside the NPCs’ minds. Imagine how they might 
react to the characters, and strive to be realistic. 

• Mug it up. Scowl, smile, snarl, flutter your eyelashes, 
pout, cross your eyes, rub your hands together— what- 
ever it takes to make your NPCs come to life. 

• Try different voices. Borrow distinctive speech patterns 
from real life, movies, and television. Adjust the volume 
as appropriate. An NPC can be loud, soft-spoken, or 
something in between. 

• Keep the game moving. Let the players steer the inter- 
actions with the NPCs. 


The characters have no reason to fight ordinary wr.s: :'.k. 
Hence, no game statistics are provided for them. If 
statistics become necessary, use the commoner sta: bi : :k 
to represent an adult NPC of any race. 

Town Description 

Phandalin is small, so the characters can visit multiple 
locations and NPCs throughout a given day. If the players 
choose to have their characters split up, they can cover 
more ground, but you’ll have to take turns running 
each interaction for each player. Splitting the party also 
makes the “Redbrand Ruffians” encounter potentially 
more dangerous. 

The following sections detail specific locations in town. 

Stonehill Inn 

In the center of town stands a large, newly built roadhouse 
of fieldstone and rough-hewn timbers. The common room 
is filled with locals nursing mugs of ale or cider, all of them 
eyeing you with curiosity. 


This modest inn has six rooms for rent (Sildar Hallwinter 
takes one). If the characters decide to stay here, see “Food, 
Drink, and Lodging” in the rulebook for pricing. (The 
characters’ other alternative for lodging is to camp outside 
the town, or to persuade a farmer such as Daran Edermath 
or Qelline Alderleaf to let them sleep in a hayloft.)