# Chunk 45 of 140
---

The characters might not find the goblin trail, or they 
could decide to continue to Phandalin. In that case, skip 
ahead to part 2, “Phandalin.” Elmar Barthen (the owner 
of Barthen’s Provisions) seeks out the characters and 
informs them that Gundren Rockseeker never arrived. 

He recounts the goblin troubles and suggests that the 
characters return to the ambush site to investigate further 
(after they rest). Barthen also tells the party that Linene 
Gray wind of the Lionshield Coster (see page 16) can 
provide more information on the goblin attacks. 

^ ^ 

Rests 

The party might need to rest after the goblin ambush, 
depending on how the battle plays out. See the rulebook for 
more information on short rests and long rests. 

^ -pr 


Goblin Trail 

After the characters defeat the goblins, any inspection of the 
area reveals that the creatures have been using this place 
to stage ambushes for some time. A trail hidden behind 
thickets on the north side of the road leads northwest. A 
character who succeeds on a DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) 
check recognizes that about a dozen goblins have come and 
gone along the trail, as well as signs of two human-sized 
bodies being hauled away from the ambush site. 

The party can easily steer the wagon away from the road 
and tie off the oxen while the group pursues the goblins. 

The trail leads five miles northwest and ends at the 
Cragmaw hideout (see that section). Ask the players to 
determine the party’s marching order as the characters 
move down the trail. The order is important, because the 
goblins have set two traps to thwart pursuers. 

Snare. About 10 minutes after heading down the trail, 
a party on the path encounters a hidden snare. If the 
characters are searching for traps, the character in the 
lead spots the trap automatically if his or her passive 
Wisdom (Perception) score is 12 or higher. Otherwise, the 
character must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) 
check to notice the trap. If the character fails to notice the 
trap, he or she triggers the snare and must succeed on a 
DC 10 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the character 
is suspended upside down 10 feet above the ground. The 
character is restrained until 1 or more slashing damage is 
dealt to the snare’s cord. (See the appendix in the rulebook 
for the effect of being restrained.) A character who isn’t 
carefully lowered down takes ld6 bludgeoning damage 
from the fall.