# Chunk 94 of 140
---

Trap. The dusty plaster and rubble in front of the door 
leading to area 8 conceals a copper tripwire connected 
to linchpins hidden in the ruined ceiling. Spotting the 
tripwire requires a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 
at least 20, or a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) 
check if characters are actively searching for traps in the 
area. Once spotted, the tripwire is easily avoided and 
disarmed (no ability check required). 

Any creature that walks over or through the rubble 
without avoiding the tripwire triggers a cave-in of wooden 
beams and heavy stones. (The area of the collapse is 
marked on the map.) Any creature in the area when the 
trap triggers must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving 
throw or take 3d6 bludgeoning damage from the falling 
rubble (half as much damage on a successful save). The 
noise of the collapse puts the monsters in areas 3, 7, 8, 
and 9 on alert. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 100 XP equally among the characters if the party 

detects or survives the trap. 

3. Archer Post 

Cragmaw Castle’s main defenses are its secret location 
and the appearance of having been abandoned. In 
addition, King Grol posts sentries to drive off intruders 
who get too close. 

This small room is littered with debris. The arrow slit 
opposite the door offers a fine field of fire over the terrace in 
front of the castle gates. 

Two goblins occupy each of these two rooms. By taking 
turns shooting arrows and ducking back, both archers can 
fire each round at targets outside. When characters enter 
the room, the goblins drop their shortbows and draw their 
melee weapons. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 100 XP equally among the characters for each pair 

of goblin archers the party defeats. 


36 


PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 



square 


Pc/ 





Crag maw Castle 





m 







£ 

Arrow Slit 


s 

Brazier 


m 

Broken Door 


C 

Concealed Door 



Curtain 


ESI 

Goblin Pallet 



Supplies 


f 

Table 


^ J! 

it,p 


4. Ruined Barracks 

The Cragmaw goblins make use of every bit of available 
space in the castle. 

The southwest tower of the castle is little more than a heap 
of rubble. Several ragged bedrolls are scattered across the 
remaining floor space, and a small, twisting passage leads 
east through the ruins. 

Three goblins bunk here. Though the rubble appears 
dangerous, the tower is stable, and the eastern 
passage is safe. 

Developments 

Any loud noises here attract the attention of the goblins in 
area 7. One goblin comes to investigate the disturbance. 

If it doesn’t return, or if it spots trouble and sounds the 
alarm, the others investigate. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 1 50 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats these goblins. 

5. Storeroom 

Caravans raided by the Cragmaws along the High Road 
and the Triboar Trail supply provisions for the castle.