# Chunk 87 of 140
---

6. Ruined Store 

This former general store is not a complete ruin yet, with 
portions of its tile roof still intact. 


At an intersection near the middle of the village, a narrow 
lane winds up the steep hillside to the north. Directly to the 
south is a ruined building that might have been a store or 
workshop. Webs stretch across the lane, from the building to 
the trees on the north side of the road. 

Two giant spiders hide on the inner walls in this ruined 
building, so they are not visible from outside. Trailing 
lines from the webs in the lane allow the spiders to sense 
when prey is moving through the webs, at which point 
they nimbly scuttle over the wall and attack. The alert 
spiders surprise any character whose passive Wisdom 
(Perception) score is less than 17. 

Webs . The webs fill two squares north of the doorway 
(and the square marked “6”). They are difficult terrain, 
and a creature trying to move through them must succeed 
on a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. On a failure, the 
creature is restrained in the webs (see the rulebook for 
the effects of being restrained). A snared creature can 
take an action each round to attempt to break free with 
a DC 12 Strength check, or it can try to cut its way free 
by using a light weapon that deals slashing damage. The 
webs have AC 10, 5 hit points, vulnerability to fire damage, 
and immunity to bludgeoning, poison, and psychic damage 
(see “Damage Resistance and Vulnerability” in the 
rulebook for how vulnerability works). 

Going around the webs is difficult because of the 
thickets on the north side of the road. Going around 
the ruined building to the south leads to the twig 
blights in area 5. 

Treasure 

The corpse of an unfortunate adventurer is cocooned in 
spider silk in the western half of the building. The body 
is shriveled up and sucked dry, but appears to have been 
a male elf. The body wears studded leather armor and a 
shortsword in the scabbard at its hip. A careful search also 
yields a potion of healing in a belt pouch, along with 23 
gp and 35 sp. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 400 XP equally among the characters if the party 
defeats the giant spiders. 

7. Dragon’s Tower 

This tower was formerly the home of a human wizard, 
who was killed fighting the ash zombies that overran 
Thundertree thirty years ago. 

At the top of the hill stands a round tower with a cottage 
attached. Both are in good condition, although half ofthe 
tower’s roof is gone. A door leads into the cottage, and 
several arrow-slit windows are visible in the tower. You can’t 
help but notice an eerie quiet in the area and a strange, acrid 
smell in the air. 

The corpses of two hideous giant spiders are sprawled near 
the edge of the pathway, apparently dragged there. Their 
bloated bodies are puckered and blistered, and appear to 
have been mauled by a large animal. 


PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 



Venomfang