# Chunk 99 of 140
---

This chamber has been set up as a crude living space, with 
thick furs thrown on the floor to serve as carpets, old trophies 
hanging on the walls, a large bed to the north, and a brazier 
of coals burning brightly. A round table with several chairs 
stands to the south near the door. Near the table, on the 
floor, is an unconscious dwarf who looks badly beaten. 

King Grol is a fierce old bugbear with 45 hit points. He 
rules the Cragmaws through pure intimidation. Age 
has stooped his shoulders and hunched his back, but he 
remains surprisingly agile and strong. He is demanding 
and vindictive, and no Cragmaw dares to cross him. 

Grol is attended by Snarl, a wolf with 18 hit points, 
and a doppelganger disguised as a female drow. The 
doppelganger, Vyerith, is a messenger from the Black 
Spider, come to collect Gundren Rockseeker and the map 
of Wave Echo Cave from King Grol. Grol wants to sell 
the map instead of surrendering it, and he and the drow 
are negotiating a price. Vyerith first wants to question 
Gundren to find out if anyone else knows the location of 


40 


PART 3: THE SPIDER'S WEB 


the mine. Then the doppelganger intends to kill the dwarf 
and destroy the map. 

If the villains have been warned that an attack is 
imminent, Vyerith hides behind the door to the northeast, 
leaving it open a crack and hoping to attack an intruder 
from the rear. Grol holds Gundren hostage, ready to kill 
the dwarf if the characters don’t back off. 

Arrow Slits. The arrow slits are 15 feet above the 
ground outside, and the creatures here aren’t keeping 
watch. They are unlikely to notice intruders moving 
around the exterior of the castle. 

Northwest Room. This partially collapsed chamber was 
once a comfortable bathroom. It still contains a large tile 
tub, unused by the castle’s current occupants. 

Unconscious Dwarf. Near the southwest corner of the 
room is Gundren Rockseeker, a dwarf commoner. He is 
unconscious but stable at 0 hit points. 

Developments 

If Grol is killed, Vyerith tries to kill Gundren and flee with 
the map, heading toward area 11 and escaping through 
the concealed canvas door. If cornered, the doppelganger 
fights to the death rather than allow itself to be captured. 

If Gundren is revived, he thanks the party for coming 
to his rescue but won’t leave Cragmaw Castle without his 
map. Unfortunately, he doesn’t know where King Grol has 
hidden it (see the “Treasure” section). 

Treasure 

Hidden under Grol’s bed mattress is a stitched leather 
sack containing 220 sp, 160 ep, three potions of healing, and 
Gundren’s map to Wave Echo Cave. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 950 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats King Grol, the wolf, and the doppelganger. 

Award an additional 200 XP to the party if the 
characters rescue Gundren Rockseeker and escort him 
safely back to Phandalin. 

Returning War Band