# Chunk 47 of 140
---

GOBLIN ARROWS 


General Features 

The Cragmaw cave slopes steeply upward. The entrance is 
at the foot of a good-sized hill, and the caves and passages 
are inside the hill itself. 

Ceilings. Most of the caves and passages have steeply 
sloping ceilings that create stalactite-covered vaults rising 
20 to 30 feet above the floor. 

Light. Areas 1 and 2 are outside. The rest of the complex 
is dark unless stated otherwise. The boxed text for those 
locations assumes that the characters have darkvision or a 
light source. 

Rubble. Areas of crumbling rock and gravel are difficult 
terrain (see “Difficult Terrain” in the rulebook). 

Sound. The sound of water in the cave muffles noises to 
any creatures that aren’t listening carefully. Creatures can 
make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to attempt to 
hear activity in nearby chambers. 

Stalagmites. These upthrust spires of rock can provide 
cover (see “Cover” in the rulebook). 

Stream. The stream that flows through the complex is 
only 2 feet deep, cold, and slow moving, allowing creatures 
to easily wade through it. 

Jk ^ 

What the Goblins Know 

If the characters capture or charm any of the goblins here, the 

goblins can be persuaded to divulge some useful information: 

• Fewer than twenty goblins currently dwell in the lair. 

• Their leader is a bugbear named Klarg. He answers to King 
Grol, chief of the Cragmaw tribe, who dwells in Cragmaw 
Castle. (The goblins can provide basic directions to Cragmaw 
Castle. It’s about twenty miles northeast of the Cragmaw 
hideout, in Neverwinter Wood.) 

• Klarg received a messenger goblin from King Crol a few 
days ago. The messenger told him that someone named the 
Black Spider was paying the Cragmaws to watch out for the 
dwarf Gundren Rockseeker, capture him, and send him and 
anything he was carrying back to King Grol. Klarg followed 
his orders. Gundren was ambushed and taken along with his 
personal effects, including a map. 

• The dwarf and his map were delivered to King Grol, as 
instructed. The dwarf’s human companion is being held in 
the “eating cave” (area 6). 


L Cave Mouth 

The trail from the goblin ambush site leads to the entrance 
of the Cragmaw hideout. 

Following the goblins’ trail, you come across a large cave in 
a hillside five miles from the scene of the ambush. A shallow 
stream flows out of the cave mouth, which is screened by 
dense briar thickets. A narrow dry path leads into the cave on 
the right-hand side of the stream. 

The thicket in area 2 is impenetrable from the west side 
of the stream. 

Developments 

The goblins in area 2 are supposed to be keeping watch 
on this area, but they are not paying attention. (Goblins 
can be lazy that way.) However, if the characters make a 
lot of noise here— for example, loudly arguing about what