# Chunk 83 of 140
---

Kost stays tight-lipped about the reason for his 
presence in the region. He is, however, willing to provide 
information the party needs if it does a favor for him. If the 
characters give Kost some indication of what they want, he 
shares one or both of these requests: 

• He wants the ores at Wyvern Tor removed, since they 
have scouted out his camp and seem inclined to cause 
trouble. 

• He wants to ask a question of Agatha the banshee: 

“What is the name of the wizard who built the tower at 
Old Owl Well?” Kost won’t risk the banshee’s anger, but 
the characters could ask the question for him. (Agatha 
knows the name: Arthindol.) 

Treasure 

Hamun Kost’s tent contains a comfortable traveling suite, 
including a cot, a chair, a writing desk, supplies, and a 
chest of clothes. In the chest is a leather bag containing 
35 sp, 20 ep, 20 gp, 5 pp, one pearl (100 gp), a potion 
of healing, a scroll of darkness in a bone tube, and a 
tiny jeweled box (25 gp) containing a ring of protection 
from ancient Netheril, the Red Wizard’s most interesting 
discovery so far. 

Awarding Experience Points 
Learning about the Red Wizard’s presence at Old Owl 
Well completes a quest given to the party by Daran 
Edermath in Phandalin. Divide 200 XP equally among 
the characters if the party parleys with Hamun Kost and 
reports back to Daran. 

Divide 800 XP equally among the characters if the party 
defeats Hamun Kost and his zombies. 


The ruins are currently occupied by a mage who is busy 
exploring the site in the hope of gleaning arcane lore 
left behind by its builders. The characters can enter the 


PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 


Ruins of Thundertree 

Near the place where the Neverwinter River emerges 
from Neverwinter Wood stands the abandoned village of 
Thundertree. Once, this was a prosperous community 
on the outskirts of the forest, wealthy from the work 
of its woodcutters and trappers. Then thirty years ago, 
the eruption of Mount Hotenow to the north devastated 
Thundertree. In the wake of the natural disaster, a plague 
of strange zombies swept over the area, killing or driving 
off those who survived the eruption. 

Though most of the zombies have long since crumbled 
to dust, strange magic permeating the area has mutated 
the local vegetation into new and dangerous forms. 

Few people dare to venture into the ruined village 
now, and those who do so seldom stay long— with two 
notable exceptions. The druid Reidoth (see area 4) visits 
Thundertree from time to time, keeping a wary eye on 
its dangers. Cultists have also arrived recently (see area 
13) to treat with a dragon that claims Thundertree as its 
domain (see area 7). 

As the party approaches the ruins, read the following: