# Chunk 67 of 140
---

After the “Redbrand Ruffians” encounter, the players should feel 
it’s time to deal with the rest of the gang. If they aren’t clear that 
investigating the Redbrand hideout should be their next move, 
have one of the NPCs they've already met in town make the 
suggestion directly and point them toward Tresendar Manor. 

If the players want to follow other leads in the area, it’s okay to 
move on to part 3 of the adventure and let the ruffians wait. The 
next time the characters return to Phandalin, make it clear that 
the Redbrands are causing even more trouble, and that they 
need to be dealt with. 

^ w 


PART 2 


Redbrand Hideout 

The Redbrands’ base in Phandalin is a dungeon complex 
under Tresendar Manor. Before the manor was ruined, 
its cellars served as safe storage for food and water in 
the event that the estate was attacked, while an adjoining 
crypt provided a resting place for the deceased members 
of the Tresendar family. The Redbrands have since 
expanded the cellars to suit their own purposes, adding 
slave pens, workshops, and barracks. 

If the characters begin their search at Tresendar Manor, 
they enter the dungeon in area 1. If they instead follow 
Carp Alderleaf to the secret tunnel the lad found, they 
enter the dungeon by way of area 8. 

General Features 

The hideout consists of well-built dungeon chambers with 
flagstone floors and walls of dressed stone blocks. The 
western end of the complex is lower than the eastern end, 
with stairs leading down as the characters explore. 

Ceilings. Passages and chambers are 10 feet high 
unless otherwise indicated. 

Doors. All doors are made of wood with iron handles, 
hinges, and built-in locks. They are unlocked unless the 
text states otherwise. larno Albrek (area 12) and a bugbear 
named Mosk (area 9) each carry an iron key that can lock 
or unlock every door in the complex. 

A locked door can be picked with thieves’ tools and a 
successful DC 10 Dexterity check. A door can also be 
broken down with a successful DC 20 Strength check. 

Secret Doors. An “S” on the Redbrand Hideout map 
indicates the location of a secret door. 

Secret doors are made of stone and blend in with the 
surrounding walls. Spotting a secret door from a distance 
of no more than 10 feet without actively searching for it 
requires a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 15 or 
higher, whereas a character who takes the time to search 
the wall can find the secret door with a successful DC 10 
Wisdom (Perception) check. Secret doors swing open on 
hidden iron hinges and are not locked. 

Light. Most areas are brightly lit by oil lamps in wall 
sconces, refilled every few hours as needed. 


What the Redbrands Know 

If the characters charm or successfully question any of the 

Redbrands, they can learn the location of their hideout under 

Tresendar Manor as well as the following useful information: