# Chunk 42 of 140
---

The regional map shows just a tiny part of this vast 
world, in a region called the Sword Coast. This is a region 
of adventure, where daring souls delve into the wreckage 
of ancient strongholds and explore ruins of long-lost 
cultures. Amid a wilderness of jagged, snow-capped 
peaks, alpine forests, lawlessness, and monsters, the coast 
holds the greatest bastions of civilization, including the 
coastal city of Neverwinter. 


Roleplaying and Inspiration 

One of the things that you can do as the DM is reward players 
for roleplaying their characters well. 

Each of the characters included in this set has two personality 
traits (one positive and one negative), an ideal, a bond, and a 
flaw. These elements can make the character easier and more 
fun to roleplay. Personality traits provide a glimpse into the 
character’s likes, dislikes, accomplishments, fears, attitude, or 
mannerisms. An ideal is something that the character believes 
in or strives for above all else. A character’s bond represents 
a connection to a person, place, or event in the world— 
someone the character cares about, a place the holds a special 
connection, or a treasured possession. A flaw is a characteristic 
that someone else can exploit to bring the character to ruin or 
cause the character to act against his or her best interests. 

When a player roleplays a negative personality trait or gives in 
to a drawback presented by a bond or a flaw, you can give that 
player’s character one inspiration as a reward. The player can 
then spend it when his or her character makes an ability check, 
an attack roll, or a saving throw. Spending inspiration gives the 
character advantage on the roll. A clever player might spend the 
inspiration to counteract disadvantage on a roll. 

A character can have only one inspiration at a time. 

^ 


INTRODUCTION 



Mount 'Hotenow „ 

4 . ' 

V l-r-U rv.: &gt;/* nV* wy£ 


Vo 


•/£*?3rv 


Jm^Hv \\ 


Thundertr 


xt ^a 

Neverwinters^ 

.t* \\'. v ’ 

v^% x 


OwJ; J; 

Ml 


-/;&gt;•■ Conyberry ^ 


fifragmawi 

'Mlastlef; 


mmm 


^Icesplre^e^j^: 


jGragmaw- 
' Hideout 


Ruins 

Point of 
Interest 


PhancTaliii 




Forest 


Leilori 


Marsh 


Mountains 


'A, 


PartI: Goblin Arrows 


The adventure begins as the player characters are 
escorting a wagon full of provisions and supplies from 
Neverwinter to Phandalin. The journey takes them south 
along the High Road to the Triboar Trail, which heads east 
(as shown on the overland map). When they’re a half-day’s 
march from Phandalin, they run into trouble with goblin 
raiders from the Cragmaw tribe. 

Read the boxed text when you’re ready to start. If you 
create a different adventure hook, skip to the second 
paragraph and adjust the details as necessary, ignoring 
the information about driving the wagon.