# Chunk 110 of 140
---

A narrow ledge overlooks a large cavern that houses a 
surging, seething body of water. The rhythmic booming heard 
throughout the mines is louder here. At regular intervals, 
a fresh surge of water funnels into this chamber and slams 
against the wall just below the ledge. The echo suggests that 
this cave might be one arm of a much larger cavern to the 
northeast. 

The ledge that hugs the south wall is 15 feet above water 
level. However, when water surges into the cave every 2 
minutes, it raises the water level by 10 feet. After a minute, 
the water level returns to its normal depth of 20 feet. 

17. Old Streambed 

The stream flowing from area 10 to area 18 used to 
continue through this low passage, eventually emptying 
out into area 16. 

This passageway is barely four feet high and is obstructed 
by rounded boulders and pebbles. It might have been a 
streambed, though no water flows here now. 

The dwarves diverted the stream into the channel leading 
to area 12 to drive the waterwheel in the smelter. Then the 
earthquakes that rocked Wave Echo Cave during the final 
spell battle of the ore invasion collapsed the floor in area 

18, diverting the stream once again. The old streambed 
remains as a usable passage that circumvents the undead 
in area 12, although Nezznar has not yet discovered this. 

18. Collapsed Cavern 

Nezznar’s servants occupy this cavern, guarding against 
undead incursions and carefully sifting through the 
rubble. The Black Spider’s divinations suggest that some 
valuable treasure is hidden at the bottom of the rift that 
was created when this area was destroyed. 

A wide rift fills the eastern half of this cavern. A stream pours 
out of the west wall, then tumbles down into the rift and 
flows out again to the north. Several ropes are secured to iron 
stakes along on the western edge of the rift, leading down to 
the chasm floor. 

Three bugbears are stationed here. Two of them are 
clearing rock on the rift floor while one more stands guard 
in the western half of the cavern. A doppelganger named 
Vhalak supervises the operation in the guise of a male 
drow. If a fight breaks out in the main cavern, the two 
bugbears in the rift climb up the ropes to join the fray. 

Rift The rift is 20 feet deep. Climbing up or down 
without using a rope requires a successful DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check. A creature that fails the check by 5 or 
more falls and takes ld6 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet 
fallen, landing prone at the bottom. 

Developments 

If two or more bugbears are killed, the doppelganger tries 
to retreat to area 19 to warn Nezznar. 


Treasure 

Nezznar’s divinations are accurate. Buried under heavy 
rubble at the bottom of the rift is the crushed skeleton of 
a dwarf wearing gauntlets of ogre power. The remains are 
hidden from view but can be found with a successful DC 
20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Each character searching 
can attempt one check per hour. 

19. Temp le of Dumathoin