# Chunk 39 of 140
---

Stat Block. Any monster or NPC that is likely to be 
involved in combat requires game statistics so that the DM 
can run it effectively. These statistics are presented in a 
format called a statistics block, or stat block. You’ll find the 
stat blocks needed for this adventure in appendix B. 

Tenday. In the Forgotten Realms, a week is ten days 
long and called a tenday. Each month consists of three 
tendays— thirty days total. 

Magic Items and Monsters 

Whenever the text refers to a magic item, its name is 
presented in italic type. For a description of the item and 
its magical properties, see appendix A. 


Similarly, whenever the adventure text presents a 
creature’s name in bold type, that’s a visual cue directing 
you to the creature’s game statistics in appendix B. 

Abbreviations 

The following abbreviations are used in this adventure. 

DC = Difficulty Class XP = experience points 

gp = gold piece(s) pp = platinum piece(s) 

sp = silver piece(s) ep = electrum piece(s) 

cp = copper piece(s) 

Background 

More than five hundred years ago, clans of dwarves and 
gnomes made an agreement known as the Phandelver’s 
Pact, by which they would share a rich mine in a wondrous 
cavern known as Wave Echo Cave. In addition to its 
mineral wealth, the mine contained great magical power. 

Human spellcasters allied themselves with the dwarves 
and gnomes to channel and bind that energy into a great 
forge (called the Forge of Spells), where magic items could 
be crafted. Times were good, and the nearby human town 
of Phandalin (pronounced &amp;/7-duh-lin) prospered as well. 

But then disaster struck when ores swept through the 
North and laid waste to all in their path. 

A powerful force of ores reinforced by evil mercenary 
wizards attacked Wave Echo Cave to seize its riches and 
magic treasures. Human wizards fought alongside their 
dwarf and gnome allies to defend the Forge of Spells, and 
the ensuing spell battle destroyed much of the cavern. 

Few survived the cave-ins and tremors, and the location of 
Wave Echo Cave was lost. 

For centuries, rumors of buried riches have attracted 
treasure seekers and opportunists to the area around 
Phandalin, but no one has ever succeeded in locating the 
lost mine. In recent years, people have resettled the area. 
Phandalin is now a rough-and-tumble frontier town. More 
important, the Rockseeker brothers— a trio of dwarves - 
have discovered the entrance to Wave Echo Cave, and they 
intend to reopen the mines. 

Unfortunately for the Rockseekers, they are not the only 
ones interested in Wave Echo Cave. A mysterious villain 
known as the Black Spider controls a network of bandit 
gangs and goblin tribes in the area, and his agents have 
followed the Rockseekers to their prize. Now the Black 
Spider wants Wave Echo Cave for himself, and he is 
taking steps to make sure no one else knows where it is. 

Overview