# Chunk 49 of 140
---

the opening above. A character attempting to ascend or 
descend the chimney shaft must make a DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check. If the check succeeds, the character 
moves at half speed up or down the shaft, as desired. On a 
check result of 6-9, the character neither gains nor loses 
ground; on a result of 5 or less, the character falls and 
takes ld6 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet fallen, landing 
prone at the base of the shaft. 

Developments 

If the wolves are goaded by enemies beyond their reach, 
they are driven into a frenzy that allows them to yank the 
iron rod securing their chains out of the floor. Each round 
that any character remains in sight, the wolves attempt 
a single DC 15 Strength check. On the first success, 
they loosen the rod and the DC drops to 10. On a second 
success, they yank the rod loose, bending it so that their 
chains are freed. 

A goblin or bugbear can use its action to release one 
wolf from its chain. 

4 . Steep Passage 

From this point on, characters without darkvision will 
need light to see their surroundings. 

The main passage from the cave mouth climbs steeply 
upward, the stream plunging and splashing down its west 
side. In the shadows, a side passage leads west across the 
other side of the stream. 


* ft*. 

Adventure Maps 

Maps that appear in this adventure are for the DM’s eyes only. 

A map not only shows an adventure location in its entirety but 
also shows secret doors, hidden traps, and other elements the 
players aren’t meant to see — hence the need for secrecy. 

Maps are best used to show multiroom lairs and other 
locations that have many places to explore. Therefore, not every 
location needs a map. 

When the players arrive at a location marked on a map, you 
can either rely on a verbal description to give them a clear 
mental picture of the location, or you can draw what they see 
on a separate piece of graph paper, copying what’s on your map 
while omitting details as appropriate. 

Scale and Grid. A scale allows you to measure distances 
and dimensions accurately, which is important for combat 
encounters, magical effects, and light sources, among other 
things. Indoor maps use grid squares that are either 5 feet on a 
side or 10 feet on a side. 

Compass Rose. A compass rose comes in handy when you’re 
describing locations. For instance, you might need to tell 
players about “barrels along the north wall” or “the staircase 
descending to the west.” 



Characters using light or darkvision to look farther up the 
passage spot the bridge at area 5. Add: 


In the shadows of the ceiling to the north, you can just make 
out the dim shape of a rickety bridge of wood and rope 
crossing over the passage ahead of you. Another passage 
intersects this one, twenty feet above the floor.