# Chunk 37 of 140
---

The DM is a narrator. The DM sets the pace of the story 
and presents the various challenges and encounters the 
players must overcome. The DM is the players’ interface 
to the D&amp;D world, as well as the one who reads (and 
sometimes also writes) the adventure and describes what 
happens in response to the characters’ actions. 

The DM plays monsters. The DM plays the monsters 
and villains the adventurers battle against, choosing their 
actions and rolling dice for their attacks. The DM also 
plays the part of all the other characters the players meet 
in the course of their adventures, like the prisoner in the 
goblin lair or the innkeeper in town. 

Who should be the DM for your gaming group? Whoever 
wants to be! The person who has the most drive to pull a 


group together and start up a game often ends up being 
the DM by default, but that doesn’t have to be the case. 

Although the DM controls the monsters and villains in 
the adventure, the relationship between the players and 
the DM isn’t adversarial. The DM ’s job is to challenge the 
characters with interesting encounters and tests, keep the 
game moving, and apply the rules fairly. 

The most important thing to remember about being 
a good DM is that the rules are a tool to help you have a 
good time. The rules aren’t in charge. You’re the DM— 
you’re in charge of the game. Guide the play experience 
and the use of the rules so that everybody has fun. 

Many players of Dungeons &amp; Dragons find that being 
the DM is the best part of the game. With the information 
in this adventure, you’ll be prepared to take on that role 
for your group. 

^ * 

Rules to Game By 

As the Dungeon Master, you are the final authority when it 
comes to rules questions or disputes during the game. Here are 
some guidelines to help you arbitrate issues as they come up. 

When in doubt, make it up! It’s better to keep the 
game moving than to get bogged down in the rules. 

It’s not a competition. The DM isn’t competing against the 
player characters. You’re there to run the monsters, referee the 
rules, and keep the story moving. 

It's a shared story. It’s the group’s story, so let the players 
contribute to the outcome through the actions of their 
characters. Dungeons &amp; Dragons is about imagination and 
coming together to tell a story as a group. Let the players 
participate in the storytelling. 

Be consistent. If you decide that a rule works a certain way in 
one session, make sure it works that way the next time it comes 
into play. 

Make sure everyone is involved. Ensure every character has 
a chance to shine. If some players are reluctant to speak up, 
remember to ask them what their characters are doing. 

Be fair. Use your powers as Dungeon Master only for good. 
Treat the rules and the players in a fair and impartial manner.