# Chunk 105 of 140
---

Poison Gas. Whenever a creature attempts to cross 
the cavern, the carpets of fungi that cover most of the 
floor release poisonous gas into the air. Each creature in 
the cavern must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving 
throw or take 3d6 poison damage and be poisoned for 10 



Ghoul 


PART 4: WAVE ECHO CAVE 


minutes (see the rulebook for more information on the 
poisoned condition). The gas disperses after 1 minute, 
but until then, any living creature that ends its turn in the 
cavern must repeat the saving throw. 

9. Great Cavern 

This cave once served as the banquet room, meeting area, 
and mead hall for the miners. 

Steep escarpments divide this large cavern into three 
sections — high ledges at either end, and a lower section in 
the middle. Carved stone stairs climb up to the ledges. Two 
large tables stand in the middle section, along with a pair 
of old braziers. A smaller table stands on the eastern ledge. 
The skeletal remains of dozens of dead warriors — dwarves, 
gnomes, ores, and ogres — attest to the fierceness of the 
fighting that took place here long ago. 

Seven ghouls lurk in the shadows on the western ledge. 
They notice any light or noise elsewhere in the cave and 
quickly bound down to attack. The undead are hungry and 
fight until destroyed. 

The escarpments are 10 feet high and require a 
successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check to climb. A 
creature that falls or is knocked from the top of a ledge 
takes ld6 bludgeoning damage and lands prone. 

10^ Dark Pool 

Treasure is concealed in this water-filled cave. 

A still pool fills much of this cavern. The water is dark, 
revealing little of what might lie within. The shore of the pool 
consists of a thin layer of broken shells from strange, pale 
mussels, and a fishy odor hangs in the air. 

A passage leads south from this area, and a set of steps 
climbs up to the east. A sluggish stream flows out of the cave 
to the northeast. 

The pool is 20 feet deep in the middle. The stream to the 
northeast is 3 feet deep, and the ceiling of the passage is 
2 to 3 feet above the water. Characters can easily wade 
through the stream to area 18. 

A character who explores the pool finds an old skeleton 
lying on the bottom, 10 feet from the shore and under 10 
feet of water. These are the remains of a human wizard 
from old Phandalin who died defending the mines against 
the ore attackers. Several ore arrows are still lodged in the 
skeleton’s ribcage. 

Treasure 

The skeleton wears two platinum rings (75 gp each) and 
clutches a wand of magic missiles in its bony fingers. 

11. North Barracks 

The eastern door is barricaded from inside the room and 
requires a successful DC 20 Strength check to force open. 
A character who listens at either door and succeeds on 
a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check hears gruff voices 
speaking Goblin and talking about how hungry they are.