# Chunk 54 of 140
---

Rock Dams. The goblins built simple dams to control 
the flow of water through the heart of the complex. If the 
goblin sentry in area 5 has called for the goblins here to 
release a flood, one or both of the pools are mostly empty 
and the stream is flowing unimpeded. 

8. Klarg’s Gave 

The leader of the goblinoids insists on keeping the bulk 
of the raiders’ stolen goods in his den. The Cragmaws’ 
plunder from the last month of raiding and ambushing 
caravans is here. 

Sacks and crates of looted provisions are piled up in the 
south end of this large cave. To the west, the floor slopes 
toward a narrow opening that descends into darkness. A 
larger opening leads north down a set of natural stone steps, 
the roar of falling water echoing from beyond. In the middle 
of the cavern, the coals of a large fire smolder. 

Klarg the bugbear shares this cave with his mangy pet 
wolf. Ripper, and two goblins. The bugbear is filled with 
delusions of grandeur and views himself as a mighty 
warlord just beginning his career of conquest. He is not 
entirely sane, referring to himself in the third person 
(“Who dares defy Klarg?” or “Klarg will build a throne 

from your bones, puny 
ones!”). The goblins under his 
command resent his bullying. 
Fire Pit. The hot coals in 
the central fire pit deal 1 fire 
damage to any creature that 
enters the fire pit, or ld6 fire 
damage to any creature that 
falls prone there. A creature 
can take each type of damage 
only once per round. 

Natural Chimney. A niche 
in the western wall forms the 
top of a shaft that descends 30 
feet to area 3. See that area for 
information on climbing the 
natural chimney. 

Supplies. The piles of sacks 
and crates can provide half 
cover to any creature fighting 
or hiding behind them. Most 
are marked with the image of 
a blue lion— the symbol of the 
Lionshield Coster, a merchant 
company with a warehouse 
and trading post in Phandalin. 
Hidden among the supplies 
is an unlocked treasure chest 
belonging to Klarg (see the 
“Treasure” section). Any 
character who searches the 
supplies finds the chest. 


Developments 

If Klarg is warned by the goblins in area 7 that the hideout 
is under attack, he and his wolf hide behind stalagmites 
while the goblins take cover behind the piles of supplies, 
hoping to ambush the characters when they enter the cave. 

If Klarg and company are not warned about possible 
attackers, the characters have a good chance to surprise 
them. The easiest way for the characters to achieve this 
is to climb the chimney from area 3, since Klarg does not 
expect an attack from that direction. 

If the wolf is killed, the bugbear attempts to climb down 
the chimney to area 3 and flee the cave complex. 

Treasure