# Chunk 68 of 140
---

• The leader of the Redbrands is a human wizard known as 
Glasstaff, so named because his magic staff is made of glass. 
(Only larno Albrek and the Black Spider know Glasstaff’s real 
name.) Glasstaff’s chambers are in the western end of the 
stronghold (see areas H and 12). 

• A mysterious figure called the Black Spider has hired the 
Redbrands to frighten off adventurers and intimidate the 
locals, for reasons unknown. The Black Spider has sent 
bugbears to reinforce the Redbrands and provide extra 
muscle (see area 9). 

• The lower part of the complex is guarded by a hideous “eye 
monster” (see area 8). 

• The Redbrands have a handful of captives in a holding area 
“near the old crypts,” which are guarded by skeletons (see 
areas 4 and 5). 


1. Cellar 

Any exploration of the manor grounds finds it deserted, 
but with plenty of tracks leading to a stone staircase just 
off the empty ruin of a large kitchen. At the bottom of the 
stairs stands an unlocked door with a cellar beyond. 

When the characters open the door, read the following: 

The door opens onto a five-foot-wide landing fifteen feet 
above a large cellar, with stone steps descending to the floor 
in two short flights. Another door stands beneath the stairs to 
the north. A large stone cistern occupies the western part of 
the room, whose walls are lined with kegs and barrels. 

This room appears to be a large storage cellar, exactly 
the sort of thing one might expect to find beneath an 
old manor. The Redbrands want to keep their base 
of operations hidden, so other than the barrels filled 
with fresh provisions, nothing in this room gives away 
their presence. 

The barrels contain salted pork and beef, flour, sugar, 
apples, and ale. Moving barrels around to thoroughly 
search them is a noisy activity that attracts the attention of 
the Redbrands in area 2. 

Cistern. This rectangular reservoir is clean and filled 
with cold, fresh water. It is 10 feet deep with a rim 2 feet 
higher than the surrounding floor (so that the bottom of 
the cistern is 8 feet below the floor). Drain pipes from the 
roof of the old manor above fill the cistern with water. 

A waterproof satchel hangs from a submerged rope 
attached along the south wall of the cistern, about 2 
feet below the surface of the water. It’s not visible from 
above the water, but can be found with a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check or automatically by 
a character probing the cistern with a pole or jumping 
in. The satchel contains some valuable items (see the 
“Treasure” section). 

Secret Door. A secret door is located in the southwest 
corner of the room. See the “General Features” section for 
more information on secret doors. 

Developments