# Chunk 112 of 140
---

If the characters capture Nezznar and deliver him to 
the townmaster’s hall in Phandalin, the drow is locked 
up until Sildar Hallwinter or another representative of 
the Lords’ Alliance can escort him to Neverwinter to face 
justice and interrogation. However, unless the characters 
post guards outside Nezznar’s cell, Halia Thornton (see 
page 17) breaks him out of jail, smuggles him out of 
Phandalin, and delivers him into the waiting arms of the 
Zhentarim. The Zhents want to learn everything the Black 
Spider knows about Wave Echo Cave. What happens to 
Nezznar at that point is up to you. 

Treasure 

Nezznar carries a potion of healing and a spider staff. In 
addition, the drow carries an iron key with a head shaped 
like an anvil. This key unlocks the door to area 20. 

Nezznar’s exploration of Wave Echo Cave has yielded 
some treasure, which the drow keeps in the sack on the 
wooden table. The sack contains 190 ep, 130 gp, 15 pp, 
nine small gemstones (10 gp each), and a dwarven ale mug 
made of hammered electrum (100 gp). 

Awarding Experience Points 

If Nezznar is captured alive and delivered to Sildar 
Hallwinter or Townmaster Wester in Phandalin, award 
the party double his XP value. 

20. Priests’ Quarters 

The door to this room is locked, requiring thieves’ tools 
and a successful DC 15 Dexterity check to open. Nezznar 
(area 19) carries the key. 

Unless the characters are being stealthy, any activity at 
the door attracts the attention of Nezznar and his allies 
in area 19, prompting the drow to send his giant spiders 
to investigate. 




bludgeoning damage from falling rubble and falling prone 
on a failure, or taking only half the damage on a success. 

Table . The table is strewn with notes and maps showing 
Nezznar’s efforts at exploring the mine so far. A black 
leather sack of treasure is amid the papers (see the 
“Treasure” section). 

Roleplaying Nezznar 

Even though he intends to kill the characters, Nezznar 
is curious about them. Given the chance, he quizzes the 
characters at length regarding their identities, allegiances, 
interests, and goals,. He files it all away in memory in the 
hope that someday he might find a use for what he learns. 

Nezznar admits to being the Black Spider, and to using 
the Cragmaw goblins and the Redbrands to ensure that 
Wave Echo Cave remains his secret. He will say or do 
anything to put the characters off their guard, including 
promising to surrender or proposing cooperation against 
the monsters impeding his progress toward reaching the 
Forge of Spells. However, he betrays the characters as 
soon as they outlive their usefulness. 


Dusty draperies adorn the walls of this room, which also 
contains a bed and brazier. A badly disheveled dwarf lies 
bound and unconscious on the cold stone floor.