# Chunk 86 of 140
---

Reidoth is adept at staying away from the ash zombies 
that overrun the village, as well as avoiding the area’s 
mutated plants. He knows that dangerous spiders lurk 
in the ruins at the base of the hill, and he suspects that 
someone is hiding out on the eastern side of town— he’s 
seen “folk in black masks and cloaks” (the cultists) 
skulking around. However, he is currently most concerned 
by the fact that a green dragon has moved into the tower 
(area 7) since the last time he was here. He warns the 
characters of all these threats, and suggests that they 
leave Thundertree before they get themselves killed. 


31 

PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 





Developments 

If the characters ask about Cragmaw Castle, Reidoth gladly 
provides directions. He is a member of the Emerald Enclave, 
a widespread group of wilderness survivalists who preserve 
the natural order while rooting out troublesome threats. 
The enclave works to restore and preserve the natural 
order by keeping the elemental forces of the world in check, 
preventing civilization and the wilderness from destroying 
one another, and helping others survive the perils of the 
wilds. The goblins are a threat to the delicate balance. 

If the characters ask Reidoth about Wave Echo Cave, he 
will not divulge its location but will offer to guide the party 
there in exchange for a favor: he wants them to chase off 
the dragon in area 7. If they succeed, Reidoth will honor 
his part of the agreement but will not accompany the party 
inside the mine. 

If the characters attack him for any reason, Reidoth 
transforms into a gray squirrel and scurries out of the 
cottage through a crack in the wall. He vanishes into the 
woods, then waits for the hostile characters to leave. His 
watch post contains nothing of value. 

Joining the Emerald Enclave 
If the party helps Reidoth by chasing off Venomfang, 
the druid privately approaches certain members of the 
group and urges them to join the Emerald Enclave. He 
speaks with those who exemplify the ideal of protecting 
the natural order. If a character agrees, Reidoth gives the 
individual the title of Springwarden. 

5. Blighted Farmhouse 

To its south, this farm abuts a field with thick patches of 
gorse and briars. 

This ruin looks as if it might once have been a farmhouse. 

It is now half swallowed by a dense thicket, with trees growing 
up through its ruined foundations. The lane continues south a 
short distance past the ruin before ending in an overgrown field. 

The thicket east of this ruin is crawling with eight twig 
blights. Any disturbance in the ruined farmhouse (for 
example, characters rooting around in the rubble) draws 
the blights’ ire. 

Each round for 3 rounds, two twig blights head for the 
south doorway leading into the farmhouse while two 
more head for the north doorway. The blights attack 
until destroyed. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 200 XP equally among the characters if the party 

destroys the twig blights.