# Chunk 65 of 140
---

The townmaster’s hall has a small but serviceable jail in 
the cellar. The jail consists of two cells, and Harbin carries 
keys to the cell doors. 

Quest: Ore Trouble. Harbin is looking for someone 
to head east on the Triboar Trail, where travelers have 
reported trouble with a band of ores near Wyvern Tor. 

He offers 100 gp to any group that can take care of the 
problem. If the party pursues this quest, see “Wyvern 
Tor” (page 35). 

Quest: Finding Cragmaw Castle. After resting at the 
Stonehill Inn, Sildar Hallwinter establishes himself at 
the townmaster’s hall. As an agent of the Lords’ Alliance, 
his goal is to bring law and order to Phandalin. As such, 
he wants to find the lost mine of Wave Echo Cave and 
help the Rockseeker brothers put it back into production, 
believing that bringing prosperity to the region will help 
civilize the town. 

Sildar also encourages the characters to keep up the 
pressure on the Cragmaw goblins. He offers the party 
a 500 gp reward if they can locate Cragmaw Castle and 


18 


PART 2: PHANDALIN 


defeat or drive off the tribe’s chieftain. Sildar suggests the 
party might find the castle by searching the lands around 
the Triboar Trail for more raiding parties (see “Wilderness 
Encounters” in the “Triboar Trail” section of part 3). 

Quest: Finding Iarno. After questioning several locals, 
Sildar learns that larno Albrek, a fellow member of the 
Lords’ Alliance, disappeared while exploring the area 
around Tresendar Manor about two months ago, shortly 
after arriving in Phandalin. Sildar asks the characters to 
investigate the manor and the surrounding area to find 
and bring back Iarno— or what’s left of him, if something 
killed him. Sildar describes Iarno as “a short, dark- 
bearded human wizard in his thirties.” 

Unknown to Sildar, Iarno created the Redbrands, 
installed himself as their leader, and took the alias 
Glasstaff to conceal his identity. (The Redbrands call him 
that because he carries a glass staff.) Once he learns the 
truth about Iarno, Sildar expresses a desire to have the 
wizard captured and transported to Neverwinter to face 
the judgment of a higher authority. Regardless of Iarno’s 
fate, Sildar rewards the party with 200 gp for eliminating 
the Rcdbrand threat. 

Joining the Lords’ Alliance 
If the party eliminates the goblin threat from Cragmaw 
Castle or uncovers Iarno’s treachery, Sildar Hallwinter 
privately approaches certain members of the group to urge 
them to join the Lords’ Alliance. He speaks with those who 
exemplify a desire for the security of civilization through 
action. If a character agrees, Sildar Hallwinter awards the 
individual the title of Cloak. 

Tresendar Manor