# Chunk 119 of 140
---

For example, a chaotic evil creature might be difficult to 
reason with and might attack characters on sight, whereas 
a neutral creature might be willing to negotiate. Alignment 
indicates whether a creature leans toward law or chaos 
and good or evil or whether a creature is neutral. 

Any Alignment Some creatures, such as the warrior, 
can have any alignment. In other words, you choose the 
creature’s alignment. Depending on the creature, its 
alignment entry might indicate a tendency or aversion 
toward law, chaos, good, or evil. 

Unaligned. Many creatures of low intelligence have no 
comprehension of law or chaos, good or evil. They don’t 
make moral or ethical choices, but rather act on instinct. 
These creatures are unaligned, which means they don’t 
have an alignment. 

Armor Glass 

A creature that wears armor or carries a shield has an AC 
that takes its armor, shield, and Dexterity into account. 
Otherwise, a creature’s AC is based on its Dexterity 
modifier and any natural armor or supernatural resilience 
it might possess. 

If a creature wears armor or carries a shield, the kind of 
armor it wears or shield it carries is noted in parentheses 
after its AC value. 

Hit Points 

A creature usually dies or is destroyed when its hit points 
drop to 0. For more on hit points, see the rulebook. 

Speed 

A creature’s speed tells you how far it can move on its turn. 
For more information on speed, see the rulebook. 

All creatures have a walking speed; creatures that 
have no form of ground-based locomotion have a 
speed of 0 feet. 

Many of the creatures herein have one or more 
additional movement modes. 

Climb. A creature that has a climbing speed can use all 
or part of its movement to move on vertical surfaces. The 
creature doesn’t need to spend extra movement to climb. 

Fly. A creature that has a flying speed can use all or part 
of its movement to fly. If the creature is incapacitated or 
knocked prone while flying, it falls unless it can hover. 

Swim. A creature that has a swimming speed doesn’t 
need to spend extra movement to swim. 


54APPENDIX B: