# Chunk 89 of 140
---

This was an herb and alchemy shop belonging to the 
family of Mirna Dendrar, now a resident in Phandalin (see 
encounter 5 in the “Redbrand Hideout” section). 

This ruined shop is cluttered with sagging storage shelves and 
broken furniture. Shards of glass and pieces of pottery glint in 
the weeds and rubble next to rotted books and casks. 

All the reagents and concoctions here have long since 
been ruined, and the books are unreadable masses of rot. 
However, a small wooden case is hidden in a compartment 
beneath the storage shelves. A character searching 
through the wreckage can find the case with a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The check succeeds 
automatically if Mirna sent the party to find the heirloom. 

Treasure 

The case is worthless but contains a gold necklace with a 
fine emerald pendant (200 gp). 


PART 3: THE SPIDER'S WEB 


Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 200 XP equally among the characters if the party 

returns the necklace to Mirna instead of keeping it. 

10. Town Square 

Encroaching underbrush has yet to engulf the square. 

On the east side of town, the lane opens up to form a small 
square. Several ruined buildings surround the south side of 
the square, but a larger, intact structure to the north looks 
like a barracks. One lane leads southeast, another heads 
southwest around the hill in the middle of the town, and 
a third way meanders north. In the middle of the square, 
leaning to one side ever so slightly, is a weathered wooden 
statue of a warrior clutching a spear and shield. 


The leaning statue is ten feet tall, including the base. It 
depicts an old hero of Neverwinter named Palien, who 
supposedly defeated several monsters in Neverwinter 
Wood when Thundertree was first founded. A character who 
studies the statue recognizes the depiction with a successful 
DC 15 Intelligence (History) check. The statue can be 
knocked over with a successful DC 20 Strength check. 

11. Old Garrison 

For the residents of Thundertree, living so close to 
Neverwinter Wood demanded constant vigilance. 



The barracks appears to have weathered the years better 
than most buildings in town. Its rooftop features a simple 
battlement, and arrow-slit windows confirm that it was built 
to serve as a small keep in times of emergency. 


Five ash zombies (see the “Ash Zombies” sidebar) lurk 
within this building. Former members of the garrison, 
they still wear the remnants of rusted mail and soldiers’ 
surcoats. These scraps of armor do not improve their 
Armor Class, however. The zombies animate and attack if 
any living creature disturbs their rest.