# Chunk 104 of 140
---

The mine’s assayers worked here, weighing and assessing 
ore samples and paying the minors for their labor. 


PART 4: WAVE ECHO CAVE 


This chamber was once an office or storeroom of some kind. 

A large stone counter bisects the room, set with three dusty 
balance scales made of iron. Cubbyholes carved into the 
north wall are stuffed with dusty paper scraps. Several long- 
dead corpses — gnomes and ores by their look — are sprawled 
across the floor. 

The centuries-old paper in the cubbyholes disintegrates 
if touched, but a character who reads Dwarvish can see 
faint markings on a few scraps, recording weigh-ins and 
disbursements. 

Treasure 

Behind the counter sits a locked iron strongbox, requiring 
thieves’ tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check to 
open. This pay chest was overlooked in the fighting and 
contains 600 cp, 180 sp, 90 ep, and 60 gp. 

6. South Barracks 

This was a miners’ barracks, where the skilled delvers 
working in Wave Echo Cave rested between shifts. Any 
character who listens at the partially open door hears faint 
crunching and splintering sounds with a successful DC 10 
Wisdom (Perception) check. 

Old stone bunks in orderly rows line the walls of this 
chamber, and a corroded iron brazier full of old coals stands 
near the middle of the room. The bones of a half dozen 
dwarves and ores lie strewn about, clad in scraps of armor. 
Three gray, hunched figures squat among the remains, 
pawing at the scraps and gnawing on the bones. 

Three ghouls from the pack in area 9 are here, cracking 
and gnawing on the ancient bones of the fallen in the vain 
hope that some tasty morsel of marrow remains. The 
ghouls, eager for a fresh meal, attack immediately. 

7. Ruined Storeroom 

Despite the destruction all around, the northern part of 
this storage area has survived intact. 

The eastern wall of this chamber has collapsed into a mass of 
rubble. To the north, a door stands ajar, leading to a good- 
sized storeroom. Dusty kegs are tucked neatly against the 
walls, all of them cracked and split open from age. 

It’s not comfortable, but the storeroom is a secure 
resting place. No monsters come this way. Moreover, the 
storeroom door is in good shape and can easily be blocked 
or barred from the inside. 

The contents of the kegs have long evaporated. 

8. Fungi Cavern 

This cave has hindered Nezznar’s explorations. The drow 
suspects that the mine’s magic workshops are close by, but 
he’s reluctant to risk dealing with the monsters here. 


Dense carpets of weird fungi cover large sections of the floor 
in this cavern. The growth includes puffballs a foot across, 
weird shelf fungus growing on stalagmites, and large stalks 
and caps a good five feet tall. Some of the puffballs glow with 
an eerie green phosphorescence. 

Most of the fungi is harmless, and the green-glowing fungi 
allow creatures to see the entire cavern without the aid of 
darkvision or a light source.