# Chunk 95 of 140
---

Old casks of salted meat and sacks of rotting grain fill this 
storage area. Among the supplies, you see a bloody suit of 
chain mail, a heavy crossbow, and an unsheathed longsword 
with the emblem of Neverwinter worked into its hilt. 

Though the stores here are not edible by human 
standards, the goblins can tolerate them when fresher 
food isn’t available. 

One small cask is filled with an exceptional dwarven 
brandy, which the goblins overlooked because of its size. 
The cask contains the equivalent of twenty glasses. A 
character who imbibes a glass of brandy regains 1 hit 
point, but a character who drinks two glasses within 1 
hour becomes poisoned for 1 hour. 

Sildar’s Gear. The chain mail and longsword belong 
to Sildar Hallwinter. Sildar is grateful if at least his 
longsword is returned to him. 

6. Hobgoblin Barracks 

The Cragmaws are a mixed tribe of goblinoids, with 
a handful of bugbears lording over larger numbers of 
miserable goblins and a few hobgoblins. The hobgoblins 
plan to dispose of the bugbears and take over someday, 
but for now, the bugbears are too strong a threat. 


PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 


Four plain straw pallets and bedrolls are lined up on the 
floor of this barracks. Brackets on the walls hold a number 
of weapons — spears, swords, morningstars, and more. The 
north wall shows signs of damage, but the floor is swept 
clean of rubble. 

Four hobgoblins are quartered in this room. Because 
their goblin neighbors are always getting into fights, they 
don’t pay attention to noise in areas 2 or 3. However, they 
are quick to defend their tower if any intruders appear, or 
to respond to an alarm raised by the goblin sentries. 

Treasure 

Mounted to the walls are five spears, four longswords, 
three morningstars, two g'reatswords, and a fine 
quarterstaff. The quarterstaff is engraved with stylized 
feathers, is surprisingly light (1 lb.), and worth 10 gp. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 400 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the hobgoblins in this room. 

7. Banquet Hall 

The lord of the castle once entertained his guests here, 
throwing lavish banquets and dances. Now this place is a 
foul goblin mess hall. 


The western portion of this large hall ends in a wall of rubble, 
but the remainder is still intact. This must once have been the 
castle’s banquet hall, with a soaring ceiling twenty-five feet 
high. Two large wooden tables with plain benches stand in the 
middle of the room, and a brass brazier full of glowing coals is 
tucked into one corner. Dirty dishes, half-full stewpots, moldy 
heels of bread, and gnawed bones cover the tables.