# Chunk 77 of 140
---

If he manages to escape, Iarno flees to area 1 (through 
areas 7 and 8) and grabs the satchel hidden in the cistern 
there. If the nothic is still alive in area 8, Iarno instructs it 
to waylay any pursuers. If the characters catch up to him, 
Iarno quaffs the potion of invisibility in the satchel and 
flees the hideout. At your discretion, he could reappear 
later in the adventure. 

Roleplaying Iarno 

A former member of the Lords’ Alliance, Iarno seized 
an opportunity in Phandalin to line his own pockets. 
Originally tasked with setting up a constabulary, the mage 


11. Wizard’s Workshop 

Faint bubbling and dripping sounds can be heard through 
either door of this room with a successful DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check. 

This room appears to be a wizard's workshop. A rat scurries 
across the floor and takes refuge under a large worktable 
set up with alembics, retorts, distillation coils, and other 
alchemical devices, all of it stewing and bubbling away. 
Bookshelves are crowded with sheaves of parchment and 
strange-looking tomes. 


PART 2: PHANDALIN 




26 

PART 2: PHANDALIN 


The Black Spider is a drow (dark elf). 
The Black Spider sent three bugbears 
to help Iarno keep the population 
of Phandalin under control, but the 
Redbrands have managed without 
them. The bugbears know the way to 
Wave Echo Cave, but Iarno does not. 
The Black Spider is searching 
Wave Echo Cave for the Forge of 
Spells. Dwarves and gnomes of the 
Phandelver’s Pact used the magical 
forge to fashion powerful magic items. 


• No other members of the Lords’ Alliance know of 
Iarno’s betrayal. 


Developments 

Various papers and notes are stacked neatly on the desk, 
mostly consisting of Iarno’s written orders to apothecaries 
and alchemists in nearby settlements for more materials 
for his workshop. The characters also find a letter signed 
with the Black Spider’s symbol. 


Lord Albrek, 

My spies in Neverwinter tell me that strangers are due to 
arrive in Phandalin. They could be working for the dwarves. 
Capture them if you can, kill them if you must, but don’t allow 
them to upset our plans. See that any dwarven 
maps in their possession are delivered to me with haste. 

I’m counting on you, Iarno. Don’t disappoint me. 


If Iarno is taken into custody, Sildar Hallwinter arranges 
to have the wizard incarcerated in the townmaster’s hall 
until he can be safely transported back to Neverwinter. 
Whether Iarno stands trial for his crimes is beyond 
the scope of this adventure. The Black Spider is too 
preoccupied to meddle in the wizard’s fate. 


Treasure