# Chunk 70 of 140
---

A creature that triggers the trap or fails the Dexterity 
check to skirt around the edge of the pit must attempt 
a DC 1 5 Dexterity saving throw to catch the edge. On a 
failed save, the creature falls 20 feet to the dirt floor of the 
pit, taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage and landing prone. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 100 XP equally among the characters if the party 

avoids or survives the pit trap. 







4 . Tresendar Crypts 

The elders of the long-gone Tresendar family were once 
laid to rest in this mausoleum. 

Three large stone sarcophagi stand within this dusty crypt, 
and propped up against each sarcophagus is a human 
skeleton clad in bits of rusty mail. False columns along 
the walls are carved in the image of spreading oak trees. 

The double doors in the southeast corner are sheathed in 
tarnished copper plate. 

The three skeletons are animated and attack any creature 
that comes within 10 feet of the door leading to area 5 or 
the door leading to area 6, unless that creature is wearing 
the scarlet cloak of the Redbrands or speaks the password 
“Illefarn” (the name of an ancient elven nation, which once 
spread across much of the Sword Coast). 

The stone lid of each sarcophagus is carved to depict 
the person entombed within— two human males and one 
human female, all of noble bearing. If opened, the tombs 
contain mostly moldering bones and scraps of clothing, 
but see the “Treasure” section. 

Developments 

Fighting in this room alerts the Redbrands in area 5 that 
trouble is on the way. 

Treasure 

Amid the bones in each sarcophagus is a platinum signet 
ring (50 gp). 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 1 50 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the skeletons. 

5. Slave Pens 

For the past two months, the Redbrands have been 
capturing travelers in the area and holding them in these 
pens until they can be sold into slavery. 

This long room is partitioned into three areas, with iron bars 
walling off the north and south. Filthy straw lines the floors of 
those cells, the hinged doors of which are secured by chains 
and padlocks. A pair of disheveled human women are held 
in the cell to the south, while a human boy is confined to 
the north. All are dressed in plain gray tunics and have iron 
collars fitted around their necks. 

A heap of discarded clothing is piled carelessly against the 
far wall. 

Two Redbrand ruffians in scarlet cloaks stand guard here, 
though they spend most of their time taunting the hapless 
prisoners (see the “Captives” section). If they hear fighting 
in area 5, they take up positions against the wall near the 
door, then try to surprise intruders. The captives are too 
intimidated to shout warnings or call for help. 


The heap of clothing belongs to the various captives who 
have been housed here over the last two months— at least 
a dozen people to judge by the size of the pile.