# Chunk 93 of 140
---

No monsters dwell here, but the goblin sentries in area 
3 are supposed to be keeping watch. They glance only 
occasionally out of the arrow slits, however, so characters 
who move quietly might be able to creep past them. Have 
each character make a Dexterity (Stealth) check. The 
lowest check is the DC for the goblins’ Wisdom checks to 
notice the party. 

Developments 

If the goblins spot the characters (or if the characters 
approach openly), the goblins shoot arrows from behind 
the arrow slits. However, they can’t fire directly at enemies 
at or past the broken gate. The goblins also shout loudly 

Disguised Characters 

Rather than storm Cragmaw Castle with weapons in hand, 
clever characters might try to talk their way inside. For example, 
they might don the scarlet cloaks of the Redbrands and claim 
to be emissaries sent by larno “Glasstaff” Albrek, the Redbrand 
leader, to meet with King Grol. A good DM rewards this kind of 
clever thinking by giving the characters a chance to succeed. 

It’s okay if the characters circumvent combat and talk their 
way past castle defenders. Both the Cragmaw tribe and the 
Redbrands work for the Black Spider, so the goblinoids aren't 
likely to attack the party if they claim to be working in the Black 
Spider’s interest. 

If the characters try to perpetrate a deception as a group, 
have them each make a Charisma (Deception) check contested 
by the monsters’ Wisdom (Insight) checks, and give the 
characters advantage on their checks if the deception is 
particularly well planned or roleplayed. If at least one character 
wins the contest, the deception is a success. You may award XP 
for monsters fooled by the deception. As the party makes its 
way deeper into the castle, additional checks might be required, 
at your discretion. 

^ ^ 


enough to alert their comrades in areas 4 and 6 that the 
castle is under attack. 

2. Trapped Hall 

Once the castle’s foyer, this wide hall makes a dangerous 
battleground. 

Doors stand closed to the north and south, with a crumbling 
mound of rubble partially obscuring the southern hall. To the 
east, a broad corridor ends in two more doors leading south 
and east. The corridor is cluttered with dusty rubble and 
fallen plaster from a partial collapse of the ceiling overhead. 

If the goblin sentries in area 3 raised the alarm, the 
goblins and hobgoblins in areas 4 and 6 come running out 
of the north and south doors at the same time. They attack 
from both directions, trying to overwhelm the adventurers 
and drive them out of the castle.