# Chunk 106 of 140
---

Old stone bunks line the walls of this barracks, which is lit and 
heated by a glowing iron brazier in the middle of the room. 

If the party enters from the west, add: 

( » i 

Across the room is another door, this one blocked by a 
barricade made from the remains of a wooden table. 

Five bugbears reside in this chamber. They are loyal 
minions of Nezznar. This room marks the front line in 
the Black Spider’s assault on Wave Echo Cave, and the 
bugbears are here to prevent ghouls, zombies, or other 
undead from troubling their master in his lair (area 19). 

Like area 6, this was formerly a barracks for miners. 
Nezznar’s bugbears removed the corpses they found here 
and built the barricade. 

Treasure 

The largest bugbear carries a pouch containing 15 cp, 13 
ep, and a potion of vitality. 

12. Smelter Cavern 

Like the fungi cavern at area 8, this chamber poses a 
serious obstacle that prevents Nezznar from reaching 
his objective— the Forge of Spells (area 15). The drow is 
still formulating a plan to get past the undead guardians 
in this area. 

A blast furnace and a mechanical bellows powered by a 
waterwheel dominate this large chamber. The furnace is cold 
and dark, but heaps of coal are piled nearby, along with carts 
full of unrefined ore. The waterwheel sits in a ten-foot-wide 
channel cut into the floor of the room, but the channel is dry. 
Passages exit to the west, south, and east. The empty channel 
exits to the north and east. 

More than a dozen withered corpses are scattered around 
the room. These slain dwarves and ores are still wearing 
the remnants of their armor. Floating above them is a skull 
engulfed in green flame. 

Eight of the fallen dwarf warriors are zombies. They rise 
and pursue any living creatures that enter the room, but 
they do not pursue creatures outside this area for more 
than 1 round. In addition, a far more intelligent undead 
guards this area: a flameskull. This creature was a 
servant of the human wizards allied with the Phandelver 
dwarves and gnomes, and it continues to act on ancient 
instructions to prevent intruders from passing through. 

This impressive chamber was the heart of the Wave 
Echo Cave mining operation. Here, the dwarves melted 
down their ore to refine ingots of silver, gold, and platinum. 
The dry channel is where the dwarves diverted the stream 
from area 18 to power the waterwheel here. That in turn 
operated the bellows that fed the furnace. 

The channel’s bottom is 5 feet below floor level, and no 
ability check is required to scramble in or out. Characters 
in the channel can follow it out of this room to the north or 
to the east, though the ceiling is only 5 feet high after the 
channel exits this room. 


46 


PART 4: WAVE ECHO CAVE 



13. Starry Cavern 

The structural damage and the skeletal remains in this 
area are evidence of the destructive spell battle fought 
here centuries ago when the ores and their mercenary 
wizards stormed the mines.