# Chunk 116 of 140
---

MAGIC ITEMS 





Spider Staff 

The top of this black, adamantine staff is shaped like a 
spider. The staff weighs 6 pounds. You must be attuned to 
the staff to gain its benefits and cast its spells. 

The staff can be wielded as a quarterstaff. It deals 
ld6 extra poison damage on a hit when used to make a 
weapon attack. 

The staff has 10 charges, which are used to fuel the 
spells within it. With the staff in hand, you can use your 
action to cast one of the following spells from the staff if 
the spell is on your class’s spell list: spider climb (1 charge) 
or web (2 charges, spell save DC 15). No components 
are required. 

The staff regains ld6 + 4 expended charges each day at 
dusk, if you expend the staff’s last charge, roll a d20. On a 
1, the staff crumbles to dust and is destroyed. 

Staff of Defense 

This slender, hollow staff is made of glass yet is as strong 
as oak. It weighs 3 pounds. You must be attuned to the 
staff to gain its benefits and cast its spells. 

While holding the staff, you have a +1 bonus to 
your Armor Class. 

The staff has 10 charges, which are used to fuel the 
spells within it. With the staff in hand, you can use your 
action to cast one of the following spells from the staff if 
the spell is on your class’s spell list: mage armor (1 charge) 
or shield (2 charges). No components are required. 

The staff regains ld6 + 4 expended charges each day at 
dawn. If you expend the staff’s last charge, roll a d20. On a 
1, the staff shatters and is destroyed. 

Wand of Magic Missiles 

This wand has 7 charges. With the wand in hand, you can 
use your action to fire the magic missile spell from the 
wand— no components required— and expend 1 to 3 of the 
wand’s charges. For each charge you expend beyond 1, the 
spell’s level increases by 1. You can use this wand even if 
you are incapable of casting spells. 

The wand regains ld6 + 1 expended charges each day at 
dawn. If you expend the wand’s last charge, roll a d20. On 
a 1, the wand crumbles into ash and is destroyed. 


Potion of Healing 

When you drink this potion, you regain 2d4 + 2 hit points. 


Potion of Invisibility 

When you drink this potion, you— along with the clothing, 
armor, weapons, and other equipment on your person- 
become invisible for 1 hour. The invisibility ends if you 
attack or cast a spell. 


Potion of Vitality 

Drinking this potion removes any exhaustion you are 
suffering, cures any disease or poison affecting you, and 
maximizes the effect of any Hit Die you spend to regain hit 
points within the next 24 hours. 


Ring of Protection 

While you are wearing this ring and are attuned to it, you 
have a +1 bonus to your Armor Class and saving throws. 


Spell Scroll