# Chunk 61 of 140
---

Daran is a member of the Order of the Gauntlet, a 
devout and vigilant group that seeks to protect others from 
the depredations of evildoers. The order is always vigilant, 
ready to smite evil, enforce justice, and enact retribution 
against any who try to subjugate or harm others. Though 
he is no longer active in the order, he keeps an eye on 
happenings around Phandalin. He is happy to trade news 
with fellow adventurers, especially those who appear to 
hold to these virtues. 

Daran is concerned about the Redbrands, and he would 
like to see a group of adventurers teach the ruffians a 
lesson. He tells the characters that it’s time someone took 
a stand against the Redbrands’ leader, Glasstaff. Daran 
knows the Redbrands hang around the Sleeping Giant tap 
house, but he can also tell the characters that the main 
Redbrand safe house lies under Tresendar Manor, the 
ruin at the east edge of town. (See the “Tresendar Manor” 
section for more information.) 

Quest: Old Owl Trouble . Daran has heard stories 
from prospectors in the hills northeast of Phandalin that 
someone is digging around in the ruins known as Old 
Owl Well. More disturbingly, several prospectors have 
reported being chased from the area by undead. He asks 
the characters to visit the ruins, a couple days march 
northeast of Phandalin, and find out who’s there and 
what they’re up to. Daran knows that the ruins are an 
old watchtower of an ancient magical empire known as 
Netheril, and he worries that dangerous magic might be 
dormant there. If the party pursues this quest, see “Old 
Owl Well” (page 29). 

Joining the Order of the Gauntlet 
If the party deals with the Redbrands and investigates Old 
Owl Well, Daran Edermath privately approaches certain 
members of the group to urge them to join the Order of the 
Gauntlet. He speaks with those who exemplify the virtues 
of the order, such as honor and vigilance. If a character 
agrees, Daran awards the person the title of Chevall. 

Lionshield Coster 


Hanging above the front door of this modest trading post is 
a sign shaped like a wooden shield with a blue lion painted 
on it. 

This building is owned by the Lionshields, a merchant 
company based in the city of Yartar, over a hundred miles 
to the east. They ship finished goods to Phandalin and 
other small settlements throughout the region, but this 
outpost has been hard hit by banditry. The most recent 
Lionshield caravan due in Phandalin never arrived. (It was 
attacked and its cargo captured by the Cragmaw goblins.) 


PART 2: PHANDALIN 



Hoffr iHoar" 

hi; :mm 


S' 

Sister 1 M 
Garaele’s;rj^&gt; 
Hornet "SK 


Phandalin 


Sfe- ^ (\\ jV- Barthe ns , L 
i ^Provisiohs’* 


: Hart hcii's 

*; -I 


‘Jv\ rv/, a// 


, .... 

O'- '..^J^rreserKiarMano^ 


: \ • •Eciemiath- 

jaMS SBfRr 


Sleeping?:^ 

Wrj?'£? pm 
&gt;. -sf. 


rStonemlPInn: 


Town i 
Green 


Lineric s 
. Home &gt; 

wV &lt;v 


^Townmastcr’s 


rLipiishield’ 


Foster 


P^lTirBSk^h- 
.? Weste rs^-^