# Chunk 96 of 140
---

This hall holds seven miserable goblins and their 
leader— a fat, cantankerous goblin with 12 hit points 
named Yegg. Yegg is the chief cook for the Cragmaws, 
and he viciously bullies his unwilling assistants as they 
go about the work of putting food on the tribe’s table. If 
Yegg is killed, any goblins left alive flee to the east or west, 
avoiding the north door because of the trap in area 2. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 400 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the goblins in this room. 

8. Dark Hall 

Even by day, this area has no exterior light. The boxed 
text assumes that the characters have darkvision or a 
light source. 

This high, narrow hall looks as if it might have been part of 
a chapel or shrine at one time. Angelic figures are sculpted 
along the room’s upper reaches, looking down on the floor 
below. To the north, heavy curtains block a matching pair of 
archways. Between the archways is a cracked but ornately 
carved stone brazier. 

This chamber contains a grick -the special pet of the 
goblin Lhupo (area 9). The grick likes to climb up to a 
ledge hidden in the shadows of the statuary in the higher 
reaches of the room. It quietly observes intruders that 
enter the area before dropping down to strike. Compare 
the grick’s Dexterity (Stealth) check to the characters’ 
Wisdom (Perception) checks (or their passive scores) to 
determine who among them is surprised. The grick knows 
that goblins are not to be eaten unless Lhupo says so. 

The rest of the Cragmaws are terrified of Lhupo’s pet and 
hurry through this room, preferably in twos or threes. 

Any cleric who examines the chapel’s decor can attempt 
a DC 10 Intelligence (Religion) check to identify the deities 
that were once revered here: Oghma (god of knowledge), 
Mystra (goddess of magic), Lathander (god of dawn), and 
Tymora (goddess of luck). This is an obvious sign that the 
builders of the castle were human. 

Developments 

If combat erupts here, the goblins in area 9 cannot 
be surprised. 

Treasure 

The stone brazier contains a mound of coal, buried under 
which is a gold statuette of a sun elf (100 gp) wrapped in 
crimson cloth. A goblin hid the figurine here, hoping his 
fellow goblins wouldn’t steal it from him. 



PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 


A detect magic spell reveals that the statuette is imbued 
with divination magic. Any non-evil creature grasping 
the statue can ask it a question and receive a telepathic 
response, as though it had cast augury (see the rulebook 
for a description of this spell). Once a creature has asked 
its question and received a response, it can never activate 
the statuette again. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 450 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the grick. 

9. Goblin Shrine 

Goblins have no use for human gods, so the Cragmaws 
have rededicated this place to Maglubiyet, the god of 
goblins and hobgoblins. 

This chamber occupies the northern tower of the castle.