# Chunk 43 of 140
---

In the city of Neverwinter, a dwarf named Gundren 
Rockseeker asked you to bring a wagonload of provisions to 
the rough-and-tumble settlement of Phandalin, a couple of 
days’ travel southeast of the city. Gundren was clearly excited 
and more than a little secretive about his reasons for the trip, 
saying only that he and his brothers had found “something 
big,” and that he’d pay you ten gold pieces each for escorting 
his supplies safely to Barthen's Provisions, a trading post in 
Phandalin. He then set out ahead of you on horse, along with 
a warrior escort named Sildar Hallwinter, claiming he needed 
to arrive early to “take care of business.” 

You’ve spent the last few days following the High Road 
south from Neverwinter, and you've just recently veered east 
along the Triboar Trail. You’ve encountered no trouble so far, 
but this territory can be dangerous. Bandits and outlaws have 
been known to lurk along the trail. 

Before continuing with the adventure, take a few minutes 
to do the following: 

• Encourage the players to introduce their characters to 
each other if they haven’t done so already. 

• Ask the players to think about how their characters 
came to know their dwarf patron, Gundren Rockseeker. 
Let the players concoct their own stories. If a player is 
hard-pressed to think of anything, suggest something 
simple. For example, Gundren could be a childhood 
friend or someone who helped the player’s character 
get out of a tough scrape. This exercise is a great oppor- 
tunity for the players to contribute to the adventure’s 
backstory. 

• Ask the players to give you the party’s marching order 
and how their characters are traveling. Who’s in front, 
and who’s bringing up the rear? If the characters are 


escorting Gundren’s wagonload of supplies, then one or 
two characters need to be driving the wagon. The rest 
of the characters can be riding on the wagon, walking 
alongside, or scouting ahead, as they like. 

Driving the Wagon 

Any character can drive a wagon, and no particular skill is 
necessary. Two oxen pull the wagon. If no one is holding 
the reins, the oxen stop where they are. 

The wagon is packed full of an assortment of mining 
supplies and food. This includes a dozen sacks of flour, 
several casks of salted pork, two kegs of strong ale, 
shovels, picks, and crowbars (about a dozen each), and 
five lanterns with a small barrel of oil (about fifty flasks in 
volume). The total value of the cargo is 100 gp. 

When you’re ready, continue with the “Goblin 
Ambush” section. 

Goblin Ambush 

Read the following boxed text to start the encounter: 

You’ve been on the Triboar Trail for about half a day. As you 
come around a bend, you spot two dead horses sprawled 
about fifty feet ahead of you, blocking the path. Each has 
several black-feathered arrows sticking out of it. The woods 
press close to the trail here, with a steep embankment and 
dense thickets on either side.