# Chunk 120 of 140
---

MONSTERS 


Ability Scores 

ry creature has six ability scores (Strength, Dexterity, 
Cor. a : r. IrveLigence, Wisdom, and Charisma) and 
cc rrfs&gt; : r. ling m jdifiers. For more information on ability 
sc : res =r. 2 how they re used in play, see the rulebook. 

Saving Throws 

The Saving Throws entry is reserved for creatures that 
are particularly adept at resisting certain kinds of effects. 

Skills 

The Skills entry is reserved for creatures that are 
proficient in one or more skills. For example, a creature 
that is very perceptive and stealthy might have higher- 
than-normal bonuses to Wisdom (Perception) and 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks. 

Skills in a monster’s stat block are shown with the total 
modifier— the monster’s ability modifier plus its proficiency 
bonus. If a monster’s stat block says “Stealth +6,” roll a 
d20 and add 6 when the monster makes an ability check 
using Stealth. 

JL 

Armor, Weapon, and Tool Proficiencies 

Assume that a creature is proficient with its armor, weapons, 
and tools. If you swap out a creature’s armor and weapons, 
you must decide whether the creature is proficient with its new 
equipment. See the rulebook for what happens when you use 
these items without proficiency. 


Vulnerabilities, Resistances, 
and Immunities 

Some creatures have vulnerability, resistance, or 
immunity to certain types of damage. Additionally, some 
creatures are immune to certain conditions and other 
game effects. These immunities are also noted here. 

Senses 

The Senses entry notes a creature’s passive Wisdom 
(Perception) score, as well as any special senses the 
creature might have, such as the following senses. 

Blindsight. A creature with blindsight can perceive its 
surroundings without having to rely on sight, within a 
specific radius. 

Darkvision . A creature with darkvision can see in the 
dark within a specific radius. The creature can see in dim 
light within the radius as if it were bright light, and in 
darkness as if it were dim light. The creature can’t discern 
color in darkness, only shades of gray. 

Truesight. A creature with truesight can see in normal 
and magical darkness, see invisible creatures and objects, 
automatically detect visual illusions and succeed on saving 
throws against them, and perceive the original form of a 
shapechanger or a creature that is transformed by magic. 
Furthermore, the creature can see into the Ethereal Plane. 

Languages 

The languages that a creature can speak are listed in 
alphabetical order. Sometimes a creature can understand 
a language but not speak it, and this is noted in its entry. 


Challenge 

An appropriately equipped and well-rested party of four 
adventurers should be able to defeat a creature that has 
a challenge rating equal to their level without suffering 
any casualties. 

Monsters that are significantly weaker than lst-level 
characters have challenge ratings lower than 1. 

Experience Points (XP)