# Chunk 101 of 140
---

The drow is searching for the Forge of Spells, where 
the human mages of old Phandalin enchanted dwarven 
weapons and gnome gadgets. However, Nezznar’s 
exploration has been hindered by the restless undead and 
dangerous monsters that lurk in Wave Echo Cave, forcing 
him to proceed with great caution. 

The adventurers now have the chance to aid Gundren, 
avenge his kin, and put a stop to the nefarious schemes 
of the Black Spider. And of course, the hoard of powerful 
magic rumored to be hidden in the mines is a rich prize. 

Character Level 

This part of the adventure is designed for characters of 
at least 4th level and assumes that each character has 
earned at least 2,700 XP. If the adventurers skipped too 
many of the optional investigations and encounters in part 
3, they might not be 4th level, and many of the encounters 
in this section might be difficult for them. 

Experience Point Awards 

In this part of the adventure, XP is awarded for 
overcoming monsters, as in parts 2 and 3. However, 

XP awards for monsters is not given in the encounter 
description. Instead, the amount of XP that a monster 
is worth is noted in its stat block (see appendix B). You 
calculate the award by totaling the value for each monster 
the characters overcome. Additional XP awards, and the 
reasons for them, are described in the text, under the 
“Awarding Experience Points” heading. 

Wandering Monsters 

Monsters roam through all areas of the mine. Random 
encounters remind players that monsters aren’t 


necessarily confined to specific areas, and that no part of 
the dungeon is safe. Encounters with wandering monsters 
are an effective way to keep the players and characters 
on their toes, alleviate player boredom, and tax party 
resources. However, having too many random encounters 
can become tedious, so use them sparingly. 

If the characters spend a long time in a given area, you 
can check for wandering monsters by rolling a d20. On a 
roll of 17-20, an encounter takes place. Conversely, if the 
players seem restless, you can decide that an encounter 
occurs. Roll a dl2 and consult the Wandering Monsters 
table to determine what the party meets. 


Wandering Monsters 


d!2 Roll 

Result 

1-3 

Stirges (2d4) 

4-5 

Ghouls (ld4) 

6 

Gricks (ld4) 

7-8 

Bugbears (ld4) 

9 

Skeletons (ld6) 

10 

Zombies (1 d6) 

11-12 

Ochre Jelly (1) 


General Features 

The mine is cold, damp, and surprisingly drafty. A 
noticeable breeze blows through many of its passages, 
flowing from area 1 toward area 16. 

Ceilings . Tunnels are 10 feet high unless noted 
otherwise. Rooms have 20-foot-high ceilings, while 
natural caverns have 30-foot-high ceilings dotted 
with stalactites. 

Doors . Unless noted otherwise, all doors are 6 feet tall, 
4 feet wide, and made of six-inch-thick cut slabs of stone 
fitted with iron handles and hinges. The doors are low and 
wide— perfect for dwarves.