# Chunk 59 of 140
---

The proprietor is a short, friendly young human male 
named Toblen Stonehill. Toblen is a native of the town of 
Triboar to the east. He came to Phandalin to prospect, 
but soon realized that he knew a lot more about running 
an inn than he did about mining. The new town offered 
a good opportunity to become established. Toblen is 
upset that the Redbrands have been allowed to terrorize 
the town, and that Harbin Wester, the townmaster, has 
done nothing to curtail them. However, he tries not to 
stir up trouble for fear that the Redbrands might retaliate 
against his wife and children. 

Rumors. Spending a little time in the common 
room and chatting up the townspeople can provide the 
characters with a number of good leads to explore in and 
around town. NPCs present in the Stonehill Inn and the 
rumors they pass on include: 

• Narth, an old farmer: “Sister Garaele, who oversees the 
Shrine of Luck, recently left town for a few days, then 
returned wounded and exhausted.” (See the “Shrine of 
Luck” section for more information.) 

• Elsa, a gossipy barmaid: “Daran Edermath, the orchard 
keeper, is a former adventurer.” (See the “Edermath 
Orchard” section for more information.) 

• Lanar, a miner: “Ore raiders have been seen on the 
east end of Triboar Trail. The townmaster is looking for 
someone to run them off.” (See the “Townmaster’s Hall” 
section for more information.) 

• Trilena, the innkeeper’s wife: “Thel Dendrar, a local 
woodcarver, stood up to the Redbrands a tenday ago 
when they came by his shop and leered at his wife. The 
ruffians murdered him. Several townsfolk saw it happen. 
The Redbrands grabbed his body, and now his wife, 
daughter, and son have gone missing too.” (Unknown 


PART 2: PHANDAU 


to Trilena and the other townsfolk, the Redbrands took 
Thel’s wife and children to their secret hideout.) 

• Pip, Toblen’s young son: “Qelline Alderleaf s son 
Carp said he found a secret tunnel in the woods, but 
Redbrands almost caught him.” (See the “Alderleaf 
Farm” section for more information.) 

• Freda, a weaver: “The Redbrands hassle every business 
in town, except for the Phandalin Miner’s Exchange. 
They don’t want trouble with Halia Thornton, who runs 
it.” (See the “Phandalin Miner’s Exchange” section for 
more information.) 

These leads should point the characters toward 
opportunities for adventure in and around Phandalin. In 
addition, any NPC at the inn can tell the characters that 
the Redbrands frequent the Sleeping Giant tap house at 
the east end of town— and that the ruffians are trouble. 

Barthen’s Provisions