# Chunk 97 of 140
---

A stone altar stands in the middle of the room, covered with 
bloodstained black cloth. Golden ritual implements — a 
chalice, a knife, and a censer — are carefully arranged on top 
of the altar. Two archways to the south are covered with 
heavy curtains. 

This shrine is home to Lhupo (a goblin with 12 hit points) 
and two ordinary goblins that serve as his “acolytes.” 

They all wear filthy robes over their armor, but none of 
them possess divine powers (although Lhupo claims to 
hear Maglubiyet speaking to him). If the goblins heard 
the characters fighting the gricks in area 8, they hide 
behind the altar and attempt to surprise the characters. 
Otherwise, all three goblins are kneeling before the altar, 
praying to their evil god. 

The bloodstained cloth completely covers the stone altar, 
the sides of which are engraved with images of the same 
gods reflected in the decor found in area 8. 

Treasure 

The chalice, knife, and censer are human-made art objects 
worth 150 gp, 60 gp, and 120 gp, respectively. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 150 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the goblins. 

10. Postern Gate 

This side entrance to the castle is locked but unguarded. 

On the south side of the old castle, an overgrown path leads 
to a passage that climbs up into the wall. A large iron door 
stands here, sheltered from direct outside attack. Arrow slits 
ten feet above the ground overlook the path. 

The iron door is locked. It can be opened with thieves’ 
tools and a successful DC 15 Dexterity check, or knocked 
down with a successful DC 25 Strength check. 

Arrow Slits. Any character who pauses and listens near 
the arrow slits hears, from area 7, an occasional clatter 
of crockery and angry goblins arguing over whether the 
dishes need cleaning. The goblins aren’t keeping watch 



from these arrow slits. However, if the characters make 
a lot of noise or commotion, such as knocking down the 
door, the goblins come and look. If they see intruders 
outside, they shout an alarm. 

1L Ruined Tower 

Dusty canvas (marked with a “C” on the map) hides 
the northern entrance to this area, blending in with the 
surrounding stonework and rubble. A character who 
succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check spots 
a footpath leading up to the hidden entrance. If the 
characters are actively searching the outside of the castle 
for a hidden entrance, they can make a DC 10 Wisdom 
(Perception) check to spot the canvas “door.” 

This tower has almost completely collapsed, although the 
ground floor still has a little open space. Rotting crates and 
ancient barrels show that provisions were once stored here. 

A heavy curtain blocks a crumbling area to the south, and an 
intact door leads east. To the north, a short passage through 
the rubble ends before a screen of canvas. 

12. Guard Barracks