# Chunk 62 of 140
---

Alderleaf&gt;&lt;&lt; 


% • : . Woodworker i 
KV ... 


'£r ' W5t&amp; - - 

' '/// £$i ^^MirieK sjEx change' \ 2 .0 •&gt; - 'V; v&gt; . - f C‘ 

^SS^W'&gt;S : ts — ' , ■ ■&lt; ■ f kT'*\ feet I Ld k I . " I &gt;S 

. - .. - ■ -•' •■ ,.^ 


The master of the Phandalin post is a sharp-tongued 
human woman of thirty-five named Linene Graywind. She 
knows that bandits have raided Lionshield caravans, but 
she doesn’t know who is responsible. 

In a back room, Linene keeps a supply of armor and 
weapons, all of which are for sale to interested buyers. 

(For prices, see “Adventuring Gear” in the rulebook.) 
Linene has a few scruples, however, and won’t sell 
weapons to anyone she thinks might be a threat to the 
town. Among those with whom she refuses to do business 
are the Redbrands. She warns the characters that the 
ruffians are trouble and advises them to avoid the Sleeping 
Giant tap house. 

Recovered Goods. If the characters return the stolen 
goods found in area 8 of the Cragmaw hideout (or if they 
left the goods but reveal where they can be found), Linene 
gives them a reward of 50 gp and promises to help the 
adventurers any way she can. 

Phandalin Miner’s Exchange 

The Miner’s Exchange is a trading post where local 
miners have their valuable finds weighed, measured, and 
paid out. In the absence of any local lord or authority, 
the exchange also serves as an unofficial records office, 
registering claims to various streams and excavations 
around the area. There isn’t any real gold rush in 
Phandalin, but enough wealth is hidden in the nearby 
streams and valleys to support a good number of 
independent prospectors. 


The exchange is a great place to meet people who 
spend a lot of time out and about in the countryside 
surrounding Phandalin. The guildmaster is an ambitious 
and calculating human woman named Halia Thornton. 

In her attempts to establish the Miner’s Exchange as the 
closest thing the town has to a governing authority, she 
acts as more than a simple merchant. She is also an agent 
of the Zhentarim, a powerful organization that seeks to 
exert secret control over the North through wealth and 
influence. Halia is working slowly to bring Phandalin 
under her control, and can become a valuable patron to the 
characters if they don’t cross her. 

Halia doesn’t know the location of Cragmaw Castle, but 
she has heard that the Redbrands have a goblin minion 
serving them. She suggests the goblin might know the 
location. She leverages this information to try to persuade 
the characters into helping her deal with the Redbrands. 

Quest: Halia’s Job Offer. If approached by characters 
she believes she can control, Halia explains that the 
Redbrands are a problem. She tells how the ruffians 
loiter around the Sleeping Giant tap house and have a 
base under Tresendar Manor, on the east edge of town.