# Chunk 81 of 140
---

Hobgoblins. This squad of hobgoblins is actively 
seeking the adventurers, hoping to collect on a bounty. 
They know the location of Cragmaw Castle but won’t 
provide directions unless they are charmed. One 
hobgoblin carries a crudely drawn sketch of one party 
member, with “25 gold pieces for this one” and a symbol of 
a black spider drawn beneath it. 

Ores. These scouts are part of the band currently based 
at Wy vern Tor. As they roam, they look for travelers to 
ambush or homesteads to burn. 

Owlbear. This hungry predator picks up the characters’ 
scent and pursues them relentlessly. 


CONYBERRY AND 

Agatha’s Lair 

The town of Conyberry was sacked by barbarians years 
ago and now lies in ruins. The Triboar Trail runs right 
through the abandoned town, providing an easy landmark 
for locating the lair of the banshee Agatha. From the ruins 
of Conyberry, an old trail leads northwest into Neverwinter 
Wood. Agatha’s lair is a few miles outside town. 


The forest grows dark and still as the trail winds deeper into 
the trees. Heavy vines and thick layers of moss drape the 
branches, and the air is noticeably colder than it was in the 
ruined village. Rounding a bend in the trail, you see a screen 
made from the warped branches of trees standing close 
together, woven into a domelike shelter in the shadows. A low 
doorway leads inside. 


Dealing with Agatha 

If the characters are respectful and polite, Agatha can be 
persuaded to help them with a successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. The player whose character takes the 
lead in speaking with the banshee makes the check. If that 
player roleplays the encounter well, allow him or her to 
make the check with advantage. If any character has Sister 
Garaele’s silver comb and presents it to Agatha as a gift, 
the check is automatically successful. 



28 


PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 




The ghostly figure smiles with cold amusement. “Very well,” 
she says. “I know that you seek many things. Ask me one 
question, and I will give you an answer.” 

If the characters ask about Bowgentle’s spellbook, Agatha 
tells them that she traded the book to a necromancer 
named Tsernoth from the city of Iriaebor more than a 
hundred years ago. She does not know what became of 
the book afterward. Her answer is truthful, and it is all 
the information Sister Garaele needs for the Harpers to 
resume their search. 

The characters might instead choose to ask Agatha 
about something else— for example, the location of 
Cragmaw Castle, the location of Wave Echo Cave, the 
identity of the Black Spider, or Hamun Kost’s question 
about Old Owl Well (see that section). Agatha is well 
informed and a capable diviner, so she can answer almost 
any single question pertaining to the adventure that the 
characters think to ask. However, the banshee answers 
only one question, so the characters should choose 
it carefully. 

Awarding Experience Points