# Chunk 100 of 140
---

You can add a complication in the form of a hobgoblin war 
band returning home, just as the characters are preparing 
to leave. This war band consists of three hobgoblins led 
by Targor Bloodsword, a hobgoblin with 20 hit points. 
Targor also has two wolves as pets. 

The hobgoblins have no treasure, but ld4 of them carry 
bloody sacks, each containing a severed elf head. The 
severed heads are trophies from the hobgoblins’ recent 
victory over an elf hunting party. 

Clever characters might try to reason with Targor by 
urging him to think of himself as Grol’s successor rather 
than Grol’s avenger. Targor has long aspired to lead the 
Cragmaw tribe, so he might do the adventurers the favor 
of not killing them, provided one or more characters 
succeed on a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 500 XP equally among the characters if they defeat 
the hobgoblin war band or come to terms with Targor. 


What’s Next? 

If Gundren Rockseeker survives the ordeal at Cragmaw 
Castle, he offers the characters his thanks and asks that 
they escort him back to Phandalin and then venture 
to Wave Echo Cave to learn the fate of his brothers, 
Nundro and Tharden. He knows that someone called 
the Black Spider orchestrated his capture and hopes 
that the characters stop the villain. Upon returning to 
Phandalin, Gundren offers the characters 25 gp each 
for their assistance and promises the party a 10 percent 
share of the mine’s wealth once his operation there is 
up and running. 

Whether the characters sought the information from 
Agatha or Reidoth, negotiated with Hamun Kost, or 
recovered Gundren and his map from Cragmaw Castle, 
they now know the location of Wave Echo Cave. The only 
thing left for them to do is seek out the old dwarven delve 
and discover for themselves who the Black Spider is, and 
why he’s so interested in the Lost Mine of Phandelver. 



PART 3: THE SPIDER’S WEB 


41 



Part 4: Wave Echo Gave 




Fifteen miles east of Phandalin, in the deep vales of the 
Sword Mountains, lies Wave Echo Cave. The rich mine 
of the Phandelver’s Pact was lost five hundred years ago 
during ore invasions that devastated this part of the North. 

In the centuries since, countless prospectors and 
adventurers have searched for the lost mine, but none 
succeeded until the Rockseeker brothers found the 
entrance a month ago. Unfortunately, the Rockseekers 
did not realize they were being trailed by spies working 
for Nezznar, the Black Spider, and they inadvertently led 
the drow villain to their prize. Nezznar and his followers 
dealt with the two Rockseekers who were guarding their 
find, then arranged for Gundren’s ambush. Learning of the 
adventurers’ involvement with Gundren or their exploits in 
and around Phandalin, the Black Spider has given orders 
for the characters to be dealt with. Meanwhile, Nezznar 
has begun his exploration of Wave Echo Cave.