# Chunk 74 of 140
---

The bugbears work for the Black Spider and were sent 
here to help larno keep the Redbrands and the citizens of 
Phandalin in line. The leader is named Mosk. He wears a 
jeweled eye patch even though he has both his eyes. Mosk 
wears the eye patch because he thinks it’s fancy. 

The bugbears avoid the human members of the 
Redbrands. If the characters are wearing scarlet cloaks 
taken from elsewhere, the bugbears assume that they 
serve larno. Clever characters might even persuade 
the bugbears to help deal with “traitors” or “impostors” 
elsewhere in the dungeon. If you don t think the players 
are doing a great job roleplaying the deception, you can 
have the character who is doing most of the talking make 
a DC 15 Charisma (Deception) check to convince the 
bugbears to do what the party wants. 

Roleplaying Droop 

The goblin, Droop, is not a threat to the party. He has 
been cowed by the bugbears and follows their orders until 
someone stronger comes along. 

If he regains consciousness during combat, Droop 
hides and avoids the fight. He is such a coward that if 


he is ordered to fight, he does so with disadvantage (as 
explained in the rulebook). 

Droop knows the general layout of the Redbrand 
hideout, as well as the location of its secret doors and 
traps. He doesn’t think to offer up the information, but if 
prompted, he reveals as much as he can remember in an 
attempt to be useful to the party. Some of the details might 
be confusing or mixed up. He is a goblin, after all. 

If the bugbears are dispatched, Droop tries to ingratiate 
himself with the party. He doesn’t remember the route 
to Cragmaw Castle, but he knows it’s up north, in the 
forest. He also knows that Cragmaw goblins patrol around 
Phandalin, and he suggests the characters might be able 
to capture a patrol to learn more about the castle. 

Characters might be inclined to keep Droop around for a 
while. See the “NPC Party Members” sidebar (page 11) for 
advice on how to run Droop as a member of the party. 

Developments 

The bugbears are the only ones in the Redbrand hideout 
who know the location of Wave Echo Cave. They won’t 
willingly divulge this information, since they fear the 
Black Spider more than they fear the characters. 

The bugbears also know the location of Cragmaw 
Castle, but again, they don’t share this information readily. 

A character who interrogates a captured bugbear can pry 
the information loose with a successful DC 15 Charisma 
(Intimidation) check. 

Treasure 

Mosk carries a belt pouch containing 33 sp and wears 
an eye patch made of black leather set with semiprecious 
stones (50 gp). He also has an iron key that locks and 
unlocks all the doors in the Redbrand hideout. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 600 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the bugbears. 

10. Common Room