# Chunk 79 of 140
---

Depending on which NPCs the characters met and 
which quests or clues they picked up, some or all the 
following information might be known to them: 

• Sister Garaele wants the characters to seek out the ban- 
shee Agatha in the ruined town of Conybery and ask her 
about Bowgentle’s spellbook. 

• Daran Edermath wants the characters to find out who is 
lurking near the ruins at Old Owl Well. 

• Qelline Alderleaf has suggested that the characters go 
to the ruined town of Thundertree and consult with the 
druid Reidoth, who might know the whereabouts of 
Cragmaw Castle, Wave Echo Cave, or both. 

• Townmaster Harbin Wester wants the characters to 
seek out an ore encampment near Wyvern Tor and 
chase the ores away from the area. 

• Sildar Hallwinter wants the characters to find Cragmaw 
Castle, search for Gundren Rockseeker, rescue the 
dwarf, and retrieve his map. 

Each of these possible quests has its own section in 
this part of the adventure. The characters can remain 
in Phandalin long enough to rest up and purchase 
supplies. When they’re done, have them pick a storyline to 
investigate, then set out for the appropriate destination. 

Triboar Trail 

Phandalin lies in a part of the North known as “the 
Triboar Trail,” “the Triboar Cutoff,” or “the Cony Gap.” 
This stretch of foothills and rolling, sparsely wooded 
plains extends between the Sword Mountains to the south 
and Neverwinter Wood to the north. The area gains its 
name from an old trail that runs from the distant town of 
Triboar to the east, winding westward about one hundred 
miles through the abandoned village of Conyberry, then 
running north of Phandalin on its way to the High Road 
along the coast. 

Describe the party’s overland travels as vividly as you 
like, but keep the story moving. “You walk for several 
miles and encounter nothing of interest” is far less 
evocative and memorable than, “A light rain dampens the 
rolling plains as you travel north. Around midday, you 
break for lunch under a lonely tree. There, the rogue finds 
a small rock that looks like a grinning face, but otherwise 
you see nothing out of the ordinary.” 


Using the Overland Map 

During this part of the adventure, the characters will 
frequently be marching overland from one point of interest 
to another. As can be seen on the regional map on page 5, 
some of these areas are a good forty to fifty miles apart, 
requiring several days of marching overland to travel to 
the next adventure site. 

Travel Time . Assume that the party travels twenty-four 
miles per day over a period of ten hours. The characters 
must rest for eight hours per day, with the remaining 
six hours consisting of making and breaking camp, 
preparing meals, and a little bit of foraging or hunting as 
the opportunity permits. 

Wilderness Encounters