# Chunk 108 of 140
---

If the characters try to reason with the wraith, it 
listens to what they have to say, provided they have not 
harmed it in any way or seized any of its property. The 
wraith is irrevocably evil, so the only way the characters 
can stay its spectral hand is to offer it something a 
former wizard would consider valuable in exchange for 
their lives. Mormesk values magic items (particularly 
scrolls), spellbooks, and arcane knowledge. Whatever 
the gift, a character must succeed on a DC 10 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check to convince the wraith of its value. 

Regardless of what the characters offer it, the wraith 
won’t relinquish the wooden pipe in the scorched chest. 

It will, however, part with the coins and gems if the 
characters agree to kill the spectator in the Forge of 
Spells. (The wraith doesn’t explain what a spectator is. It 
merely points toward area 15.) Once it receives its gift, the 
wraith allows characters to peruse its books and keep the 
secret map in one of them (see the “Treasure” section). 

Treasure 

The scorched chest is unlocked and contains 1,100 cp, 160 
sp, 50 ep, three diamonds (100 gp each), and a wooden 
pipe adorned with platinum filigree (150 gp). 

A handful of magically preserved tomes remain on the 
shelves. Most are just histories, but one has a map sewn 
into its cover. The map’s presence can be discerned with 
a successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check. The 
shows the location of a dungeon of your own creation. 
When the characters finish their explorations here, this 
old map can lead them to their next adventure. 



PART 4: WAVE ECHO CAVE 


47 



15. Forge of Spells 

Here is where the wizards allied with the dwarves and 
gnomes of the Phandelver’s Pact channeled the magic 
of these caverns to enchant dwarven arms and gnome 
gadgets. The northernmost door is scorched and cracked, 
its iron hinges partially melted; forcing it open requires 
a successful DC 15 Strength check. The western double 
doors are just as damaged but stand slightly ajar. 

This large workshop was badly damaged by the ancient 
spell battle that laid waste to the mine. Worktables taking 
up two corners of the room are scorched, and the plaster 
has been burned off the masonry walls. In the middle of the 
room, a stone pedestal holds a small brazier in which an 
eerie green flame dances and crackles. The brazier and its 
pedestal appear to have been untouched by the forces that 
destroyed this area. 

Behind the brazier of green flame floats a spherical creature 
measuring roughly four feet in diameter. Four eyestalks 
protrude from its central mass, two on each side. In the 
center of the body is a large eye that stares at you. 

“Hello,” says a thick, burbling voice inside your head.