# Chunk 71 of 140
---

Cell Doors . The cell doors feature simple locks 
requiring thieves’ tools and a successful DC 10 Dexterity 
check to pick. The doors can also be wrenched open by 
brute force with a successful DC 22 Strength check. 

Captives 

The three human commoners imprisoned here are Mirna 
Dendrar and her two teenage children, thirteen-year-old 
Nars and eighteen-year-old Nilsa. A few days ago, the 
Redbrands murdered Mima’s husband, Thel, for defying 
them. (His corpse can be found in area 8.) That night, the 
gang returned and abducted the family from their home in 
Phandalin. The gang plans to sell the family into slavery. 

The Dendrars are grateful to the characters for rescuing 
them, but they can’t provide much information about the 
Redbrand hideout. All they know is that the boss is a 
wizard (though they haven’t met him and don’t know his 
name), and that he has “tall, furry monsters with big ears” 
(bugbears) working for him. 

Side Quest: Mima's Heirloom. Though her family has 
nothing to offer as a reward, Mirna tells the characters 
that she might know where a valuable heirloom is hidden. 
When she was a young girl, she and her family fled from 
the town of Thundertree after undead overran the place. 
Her family had an herb and alchemy shop, inside which a 
case containing an emerald necklace was hidden beneath 
a section of storage shelves. She never dared to return 
and retrieve it. The shop was in the southeast part of 
Thundertree. If the characters decide to explore the ruins 
of Thundertree, see part 3 of the adventure. 

Awarding Experience Points 
Divide 200 XP equally among the characters if the party 
defeats the ruffians. Divide 100 XP equally among the 
characters if the Dendrars make it back to town alive. 

6. Armory 

The door to this room is locked from the outside. Across 
from the locked door is a secret door that leads to area 7. 
For more information on locked doors and secret doors, 
see the “General Features” section (page 20). 

Racks of weapons line the walls of this chamber, including 
spears, swords, crossbows, and bolts. A dozen dirty red 
cloaks hang from hooks by the door. 

The Redbrands have ambitious plans to expand their 
numbers in the near future, so they have been stockpiling 
arms and armor. 

The weapon racks hold twelve spears, six shortswords, 
four longswords, six light crossbows, and eight quivers 
holding twenty crossbow bolts each. 

7. Storeroom and Work Area 

In this chamber, the Redbrands take stock of their stolen 
wares, either shipping them out through the cavern to the 
south or packaging them for storage in the stronghold. 


PART 2: PHANDALIN 


This area is the north end of a large natural cavern, but it has 
been finished with dressed stone block walls and a flagstone 
floor. Several barrels are stored against the walls here, along 
with a number of empty crates, straw for packing, hammers, 
pry bars, and nails.