# Chunk 109 of 140
---

The monster that guards this room is a spectator. One 
of the human wizards who worked in the Forge of Spells 
summoned the creature to guard the magic items created 
and stored here. When the mine was sacked, the ores 
disturbed the delicate magic in the area, unhinging the 
spectator’s grip on reality. It has become deranged and 
believes that the mine is still in use, ignoring all evidence 
to the contrary. 

The wraith (area 14) wants to drive off or kill the 
spectator, but so far, the creature has easily handled the 
assaults of Mormesk’s zombies and ghouls while seeing 
nothing strange about undead roaming the mine. If the 
party attempts to remove anything from this area, the 
spectator attacks. If the spectator is blinded somehow, it 
disappears back to its home plane, convinced that it can 
no longer perform the task for which it was summoned. 

With a successful DC 15 Charisma (Deception) check, 
a character can trick the spectator into thinking one or 
more party members are wizards or miners who work 
for the owners of Wave Echo Cave, sent to terminate the 
spectator’s employment. If the deception succeeds, the 
spectator believes it is released from its obligations, and it 
disappears and returns to its home plane. 

Brazier of Green Flame. A successful DC 15 
Intelligence (Arcana) check identifies the brazier as the 
source of the magic that suffuses the surrounding caverns. 
This magic has waned over the years, to the extent that 
it can no longer be harnessed to permanently enchant 
magic items. However, any nonmagical weapon or armor 
bathed in the green flame for at least 1 minute becomes a 
+ 1 weapon or +1 armor, respectively, for ldl2 hours (see 
appendix A). The brazier cannot be removed from the 
Forge of Spells. 

Northern Room. This small room is a separate 
workspace, where items being prepared for enchantment 
were polished, lacquered, and otherwise finished. Like the 
main workshop, it has been almost completely destroyed. 

Treasure 

On the worktable in the southeast corner of the room 
are the last items the spectator was charged to protect: 
Lightbringer and Dragonguard. 

Lightbringer. This +1 mace was made for a cleric of 
Lathander, the god of dawn. The head of the mace is 
shaped like a sunburst and made of solid brass. Named 
Lightbringer, this weapon glows as bright as a torch when 
its wielder commands. While glowing, the mace deals an 
extra ld6 radiant damage to undead creatures. 

Dragonguard. This +. 1 breastplate has a gold dragon 
motif worked into its design. Created for a human hero of 
Neverwinter named Tergon, it grants its wearer advantage 
on saving throws against the breath weapons of creatures 
that have the dragon type. 

16. Booming Cavern 

The sound of pounding surf that gives Wave Echo Cave its 
name can be traced to this water-filled cavern. 


48 



FART 4: WAVE ECHO CAVE