# Chunk 69 of 140
---

No monsters or villains are found in this area, but the 
ruffians in area 2 take notice if the characters make a lot 
of noise here. They creep into the room, gaining surprise 
if the characters don’t hear them (see “Surprise” in the 
rulebook). If the ruffians fight in this area and two are 
defeated, the last ruffian might reveal the secret door by 
fleeing in that direction. 

Treasure 

The satchel hidden in the cistern is waterproof and 
contains a potion of healing, a potion of invisibility, 50 
gp, and a clean set of ordinary travel clothing. This is a 
getaway kit that larno keeps here in case of an emergency. 

2. Barracks 

Most of the Redbrands’ human members have lodgings in 
Phandalin. This barracks is a good place to lie low after 
shaking down local miners and fur traders. 


PART 2: PHANDALIN 





Bridge 
Bunk Bed 
Locked Door 
Supplies 
Rack 

Secret Door 
Sarcophagus 
Table 


100 feet 
to forest 


■■■■■■ 



j© 


B)i 

FJ 1 

' 

• q 

T£ 

4 , 


J 


This appears to be a storeroom pressed into service as living 
quarters. Two double bunks stand against the wall near the 
door, while barrels and crates fill the southern half of the 
chamber. 

Three Redbrand ruffians are resting in this room. If they 
hear a good deal of noise in area 1 (including loud voices 
or barrels being rolled around), they prepare themselves 
for a fight and try to surprise intruders. 

The barrels here contain similar provisions to 
those in area 1. 

Treasure 

All three Redbrands wear belt pouches holding 
treasure. The first holds 16 sp and 7 gp; the second, 12 
sp and 5 gp; and the third, 15 ep and two garnets (10 
gp each). Additionally, three dirty scarlet cloaks hang 
from the bunks. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 300 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the ruffians. 

3. Trapped Hall 

This area was part of Tresendar Manor’s original cellars. 
The Redbrands dug out the dirt beneath the stone floor, 
creating a hidden pit trap. 


Thick dust covers the flagstones of this somber hallway. The 
walls are decorated with faux columns every ten feet, and 
the double doors at the west end of the hall are sheathed 
in copper plate, now green with age. A relief carving of a 
mournful angel graces the doors. 

The pit trap in the middle of the hallway is hidden under 
a false floor consisting of loose stone tiles laid atop 
breakaway timbers. The tiles and timbers collapse under 
100 or more pounds of weight. A character searching the 
hall for traps can spot the covered pit with a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. A successful check 
also reveals narrow ledges on the north and south sides of 
the pit. A creature attempting to skirt around the pit using 
one of these ledges must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check.