# Chunk 84 of 140
---

Gradually, the trail becomes an old, overgrown lane winding 
between dilapidated buildings choked in vines and brush. 
Ahead of you, in the middle of the settlement, rises a 
steep hill, upon which stands a stone tower with a partially 
collapsed roof and an adjoining cottage. A dirt road hugs the 
base of the hill and wends its way between old stone houses, 
many of which are roofless ruins with interiors open to the 
weather. Other buildings appear more or less intact. The 
whole place is eerily silent. 

A wooden sign is nailed to a post nearby. It reads: 

"DANGER! Plant monsters AND zombies! Turn back now!” 

Reidoth placed the sign to discourage bands of treasure 
seekers from stirring up the monsters in the area. 

General Features 

Many of Thundertree’s buildings have crumbled in the 
years since the town was abandoned, even as nature 
threatens to swallow what remains. 

Buildings . A building in Thundertree is either ruined or 
intact, as shown on the map. 

Ruined buildings are empty shells with stone walls 
5 to 8 feet high. Their roofs are gone, leaving piles of 
debris inside the walls. The debris is difficult terrain (see 
“Difficult Terrain” in the rulebook). 

Intact buildings are rundown, ramshackle stone 
cottages that are otherwise still standing. Their wooden 
doors are swollen and require a successful DC 10 
Strength check to force open. The windows of any intact 
building are 2 feet wide and covered by wooden shutters 
containing 6-inch wide arrow slits. Creatures on one side 
of an arrow slit gain three-quarters cover against attacks 
from the other side (see “Cover” in the rulebook). Dusty 
old furnishings such as simple wooden chairs and tables 
remain in most intact buildings. 

Trees and Brush. Trees average 30 to 40 feet tall and 
provide cover. Brush consists of large bushes that count as 
difficult terrain. 


1. Westernmost Cottage 

This cottage has seen better days. 

Cowering in the shadow of an old tree is a crumbled stone 
cottage with no roof. Weeds are rampant here. 

Two twig blights hide among the weeds that flank the 
cottage’s open doorway. Make a Dexterity (Stealth) 
check for the blights, and compare the result to the 
passive Wisdom (Perception) scores of the characters to 
determine if the blights are spotted. 

The blights do not attack on their own (except in self- 
defense) but quickly come to the aid of the twig blights in 
area 2 if combat erupts there. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 50 XP equally among the characters if the party 

destroys the twig blights. 

2. Blighted Cottages 

Wind and weather have done their work here, and little 
remains of these houses or their former contents. 

These ruined, side-by-side cottages look as though they might 
have been the homes of prosperous shopkeepers or well-off 
farmers in their time. All that remains are collapsed walls 
and piles of debris. Several young trees have grown up in the 
midst of the ruins.