# Chunk 88 of 140
---

A young green dragon named 
Venomfang has recently claimed 
the tower, having passed over 
Thundertree while searching 
Neverwinter Wood for a suitable 
lair. The giant spider corpses 
are the former residents 
of the tower, killed by the 
dragon after it tore its way 
through the roof. Since 
then, Venomfang has 
been laying low. 

Tower. The dragon lives 
in the tower— a single room 
with a 40-foot-high ceiling. 

A 5-foot-wide staircase 
circles the interior, rising to 
the now-opened rooftop that 
allows the dragon easy access to its 
new home. Heavy wooden beams and stair 
supports crisscross the tower interior. 

Venomfang does not want to give up such a promising 
lair, but if the characters reduce the dragon to half its 
hit points, it climbs to the top of the tower and flies off to 
fight another day. 

Cottage. The cottage contains dusty furniture draped in 
webbing, but nothing of value. If the characters make a lot 
of noise in the cottage, the dragon hears them and steels 
itself for a fight. 

Treasure 

An old wooden chest broken open on the tower floor holds 
the last of the dead wizard’s treasure: 800 sp, 150 gp, four 
silver goblets set with moonstones (60 gp each), a scroll of 
misty step, and a scroll of lightning bolt. Venomfang spends 
much of his time greedily admiring the loot. 

The dragon has barely noticed the most interesting item 
in its hoard. Beneath the coins is a rusty old battleaxe 
of dwarven manufacture. Runes in Dwarvish on the axe 
head read, “Hew,” and the rust is misleading. Hew is a + 1 
battleaxe that deals maximum damage when the wielder 
hits a plant creature or an object made of wood. The axe’s 
creator was a dwarf smith who feuded with the dryads of 
a forest where he cut firewood. Whoever carries the axe 
feels uneasy whenever he or she travels through a forest. 

Awarding Experience Points 
Divide 2,000 XP equally among the characters if the party 
drives away Venomfang. Given their level, the characters 
aren’t likely to slay the dragon, but it is worth 3,900 XP. 

8. Old Smithy 

This smithy was abandoned long ago. 

A wide chimney and rotted piles of firewood jumbled outside 

the walls of this sagging building suggest that it was a smithy 

in its day. 

Two ash zombies (see the “Ash Zombies” sidebar) are 
slumped on the floor. When the characters enter, the 
monsters climb to their feet (spending half their speed 
to do so— see the “Being Prone” section in chapter 2 of 


the rulebook). Then they attack. When the zombies have 
caught sight of the characters, they pursue them no matter 
where they go. 

A variety of old tools— tongs, bellows, hammers, and a 
pair of iron anvils— are scattered around the interior of 
this building. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 100 XP equally among the characters if the party 

destroys the ash zombies. 

9. Herbalist’s Shop