# Chunk 73 of 140
---

The guardian of this cave is a nothic— an insane 
subterranean monster that hungers for flesh. The creature, 
lured by a faint magical effect emanating from the 
crevasse, was occupying the area when the Redbrands 
moved in. Iarno managed to strike a bargain with the 
monster, convincing it to help guard the stronghold in 
exchange for treasure and the occasional gift of fresh 
meat. Still, the nothic is untrustworthy. 

The nothic lurks near the west ends of the two bridges. 

If it notices intruders entering the cave, it hides behind one 
of the large stone columns and watches them, attempting 
to use its Weird Insight (see the creature’s stat block) to 
discern the characters’ secrets. 

The nothic communicates using telepathy. If detected, 
it prefers to negotiate and isn’t above betraying the 
Redbrands for the right incentive, such as the promise of 
food. When roleplaying the nothic, consider speaking in 
whispers and throwing in some mad cackles and bits of 
gibberish. Also be sure to mention that the creature isn’t 
actually talking but rather filling the characters’ heads 
with its foul murmurings and demands for food. The 
nothic knows everything the Redbrands know; see the 
“What the Redbrands Know” sidebar on page 20. 



Nothic 


PA RT 2 : PH A N DA LI N 



into the fissure. The chest contains 160 sp, 120 gp, five 
malachite gems (15 gp each), two potions of healing, and a 
scroll of augury. 

The chest also holds a +1 longsword in a silver-chased 
scabbard. The sword is inscribed with the name “Talon, 
and its hilt is worked in the shape of a bird of prey with 
outspread wings. It once belonged to a great knight named 
Aldith Tresendar, known as the Black Hawk. A character 
who succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (History) check 
recognizes the sword and recalls this lore. 

Sir Aldith died fighting off the ores that attacked through 
the hidden caverns below his manor. Talon was lost here 
until the nothic found it. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 450 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats the nothic or negotiates a truce with it. 

9. Guard Barracks 

A character who listens at this door with a successful DC 
10 Wisdom (Perception) check hears several gruff voices 
issuing demeaning commands in the Goblin tongue. 
Examples include “Lick the floor! and Roll like a dog! 

The bugbears here are bullying their goblin slave. 

This barracks contains four roughly built wooden bunks, 
with heaped-up blankets and dirty dishes scattered about. A 
strong smell of unwashed bodies and rotten meat fills the air. 
Three tall, furry humanoids are lounging among the mess, 
barking orders at a sad little goblin that demeans itself for 
their amusement. Your sudden appearance causes the goblin 
| to faint. 

Three bugbears and one goblin are present. The 
goblin, Droop, falls unconscious at the sight of the party, 
but another creature can use an action to wake him. 
Otherwise, Droop remains unconscious for Id 10 minutes.