# Chunk 56 of 140
---

In the last three or four years, hardy settlers from 
the cities of Neverwinter and Waterdeep have begun 
the hard work of reclaiming the ruins of Phandalin. A 
bustling frontier settlement has grown up on the site of 
the old town, and is home now to farmers, woodcutters, 
fur traders, and prospectors drawn by stories of gold 
and platinum in the foothills of the Sword Mountains. 
Unfortunately, more than a few bandits and brigands have 
settled here as well, taking advantage of the fact that the 
area has no local lord or authority to chase them off. A 
gang known as the Redbrands has controlled Phandalin 
for the past two months, extorting and bullying everyone 
in town. The gang is led by a mysterious figure known to 
the townsfolk as Glasstaff. 

When the characters first arrive in Phandalin, read: 

The rutted track emerges from a wooded hillside, and you 
catch your first glimpse of Phandalin. The town consists of 
forty or fifty simple log buildings, some built on old fieldstone 
foundations. More old ruins — crumbling stone walls covered 
in ivy and briars — surround the newer houses and shops, 
showing how this must have been a much larger town in 
centuries past. Most of the newer buildings are set on the 
sides of the cart track, which widens into a muddy main 
street of sorts as it climbs toward a ruined manor house on a 
hillside at the east side of town. 

As you approach, you see children playing on the town green 
and townsfolk tending to chores or running errands at shops. 
Many people look up as you approach, but all return to their 
business as you go by. 

If Sildar Hallwinter is with the party, add: 

Sildar seems much more at ease. 

"My friends,” he says, "let us secure lodgings. I’m told the 
local inn is very quaint.” 

Sildar’s plan is to get some rest at the Stonehill Inn, then 
search Phandalin for signs of the missing wizard, larno 
Albrek. When his investigation hits a dead end, he sets 


up a meeting with Townmaster Harbin Wester (see the 
“Townmaster’s Hall” section). 

During this part of the adventure, the characters can 
visit the various locations in Phandalin and talk to the 
NPCs there. (See the “Town Description”section for 
details.) The town is small enough that it takes only a 
few minutes to stroll from one end to the other. However, 
the characters arrive late in the day and can’t get to more 
than one or two locations before it’s time to seek lodgings 
for the night. 

Some locales the characters should visit include 
the following: 

• Barthen’s Provisions. If the characters have the wag- 
onload of supplies from the “Meet Me in Phandalin” 
adventure hook, they are meant to deliver it to this shop. 

• Lionshield Coster. If the characters retrieved the stolen 
goods from the Cragmaw hideout, they might want to 
return them to the rightful owner.