# Chunk 85 of 140
---

The overgrowth conceals a deadly threat — six twig 
blights lurking among the ordinary foliage. Spotting 
them requires a successful Wisdom (Perception) check 
challenged by the blights’ Dexterity (Stealth) check. 

These plant monsters are hungry and fight until 
destroyed. One round after they attack, the twig blights in 
area 1 join the fray. 

Treasure 

A merchant who once lived here had a chest full of coins 
hidden under the flagstone floor of his home. A thorough 
search of the interior of the eastern cottage and a 
successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals the 
old chest among the roots of the tree growing up through 
the house. The chest contains 700 cp, 160 sp, and 90 gp. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 50 XP equally among the characters if the party 

destroys these twig blights. 

3. The Brown Horse 

This was formerly the Brown Horse, a tavern renowned 
for its excellent ale. 

A weathered signboard by the door of this large building 
shows the faded image of a workhorse holding a flagon of ale. 
The building is sagging and dilapidated, but it is more intact 
than the ruins across the road. 


PART 3: THE SPIDER'S WEB 



Four ash zombies (see the “Ash Zombies” sidebar) lurk in 
the shadows in this building, slumped against the walls or 
under the bar. When living creatures enter, the zombies 
groan and stir, slowly climbing to their feet (spending half 
their speed to do so— see the “Being Prone” section in the 
rulebook). They pursue any characters they see, attacking 
until destroyed. 

The eastern half of the building is the old common room, 
while the western portion held the kitchens and the brewer’s 
vats. Huge wooden tuns stand to the west, and a faint smell of 
yeast still permeates the air. The ale is long gone. 

Awarding Experience Points 
Divide 200 XP equally among the characters if the party 
destroys the ash zombies. 


Ash Zombies 

These zombies were created by the magical devastation when 
Mount Hotenow erupted thirty years ago. They use the zombie 
stat block, with the following additional trait. 

Ash Puff. The first time the zombie takes damage, any living 
creature within 5 feet of the zombie must succeed on a DC 10 
Constitution saving throw or gain disadvantage on attack rolls, 
saving throws, and ability checks for 1 minute. A creature can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending 
the effect on it early with a successful save. 


4. Druid’s Watch 

When Reidoth visits Thundertree, this is where 
he makes camp. 

This small house appears to be in better condition than the 
ruined and dilapidated structures nearby. The doors are 
reinforced with heavy iron bands, and thick shutters protect 
the windows. 

Reidoth is a gaunt, white-bearded human who doesn’t use 
two words when one word will do. Though he receives 
very few visitors, he is reasonably hospitable.