# Chunk 41 of 140
---

You can let players invent their own reasons for visiting 
Phandalin, or you can use the following adventure hook. 
The backgrounds and secondary goals on the character 
sheets also provide characters with motivations for 
visiting Phandalin. 

Meet Me in Phandalin. The characters are in the city of 
Neverwinter when their dwarf patron and friend, Gundren 
Rockseeker, hires them to escort a wagon to Phandalin. 
Gundren has gone ahead with a warrior, Sildar Hallwinter, 
to attend to business in the town while the characters 
follow with the supplies. The characters will be paid 10 gp 
each by the owner of Barthen’s Provisions in Phandalin 
when they deliver the wagon safely to that trading post. 

The Forgotten Realms 

Just like a fantasy novel or movie, an adventure is set in a 
larger world. In fact, the world can be anything that the 
DM and players can imagine. It could be a swords-and- 
sorcery setting at the dawn of civilization, where 
barbarians battle evil sorcerers, or a post-apocalyptic 
fantasy where elves and dwarves wield magic amid the 


wreckage of a technological civilization. Most D&amp;D 
settings are somewhere between those two extremes: 
worlds of medieval high fantasy with knights and 
castles, as well as elven cities, dwarven mines, and 
fearsome monsters. 

The world of the Forgotten Realms is one such setting, 
and that’s where the story in this adventure takes place. 

In the Realms, knights dare the crypts of the fallen dwarf 
kings of Delzoun, seeking glory and treasure. Rogues 
prowl the dark alleyways of teeming cities such as 
Neverwinter and Baldur’s Gate. Clerics in the service of 
gods wield mace and spell, questing against the terrifying 
powers that threaten the land. Wizards plunder the ruins 
of the fallen Netherese empire, delving into secrets too 
dark for the light of day. Dragons, giants, demons, and 
unimaginable abominations lurk in dungeons, caverns, 
ruined cities, and the vast wild places of the world. 

On the roads and rivers of the Realms travel minstrels 
and peddlers, merchants and guards, soldiers, sailors, 
and steel-hearted adventurers carrying tales of strange, 
glorious, faraway places. Good maps and clear trails can 
take even an inexperienced youth with dreams of glory far 
across the world. Thousands of restless would-be heroes 
from backcountry farmsteads and sleepy villages arrive in 
Neverwinter and the other great cities every year in search 
of wealth and renown. 

Known roads may be well traveled, but they aren’t 
necessarily safe. Fell magic, deadly monsters, and cruel 
local rulers are all perils that you face when you travel in 
the Forgotten Realms. Even farms and freeholds within a 
day’s walk of a city can fall prey to monsters, and no place 
is safe from the sudden wrath of a dragon.