# Chunk 91 of 140
---

If the characters talk to the cultists, Favric explains that 
they have come to treat with the green dragon (whose 
name he doesn’t know). If the characters express a similar 
desire, Favric suggests an alliance. He really plans to offer 
the characters to the dragon as part of his tribute, and if a 
fight ensues, the cultists side with the dragon. 

Treasure 

In the main room, Favric has a small coffer containing 
tribute for the green dragon: three diamonds (100 gp 
each). He also carries a potion of flying in a stoppered vial 
around his neck. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 150 XP equally among the characters if the party 

defeats or drives away the cultists. 

Wyvern Tor 

This crag is a prominent landmark in the rugged hills 
northeast of the Sword Mountains, and is easily visible 
from twenty miles away. People traveling along the 
Triboar Trail in the vicinity of Conyberry catch glimpses of 
Wyvern Tor to the south as they go. The tor was formerly 
the home of a large and dangerous nest of wyverns, but 
a band of bold adventurers dealt with the monsters years 
ago. Though the wyverns never returned, other creatures 
lair here from time to time. Wyvern Tor’s current squatters 
include a band of ores and their ogre ally. 

The ores are scouts of the Many Arrows tribe. These 
ores often roam into the more civilized areas of the North, 
spying out human settlements, waylaying travelers, 
and looting and plundering as opportunities present 
themselves. Stories of new settlers near Phandalin and 
renewed traffic along the old Triboar Trail drew this band 
to the area. Their leader is Brughor Axe-Biter — a savage 
brute who is more interested in murdering and looting 
than scouting. 

Orc Gamp 

Wyvern Tor is a sizable hill, with miles of rugged terrain 
on its flanks and slopes. Searching for the hidden orc 
camp takes time. The party can attempt one DC 15 


Wisdom (Perception) check or DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) 
check per hour to find the camp, made by the character 
leading the way. 

When the characters find the camp, read the following: 

The faint smell of smoke hangs on the air as you ascend a 
rugged ridge on the lower slopes of the hill. Fifty yards away, 
a cave mouth opens up at the bottom of a ravine. Hunkered 
down by a boulder twenty yards outside the cave, keeping 
watch, is a single orc. 

If the characters can quietly and expeditiously take out 
the lone orc, they have a chance to surprise the ores in the 
cave. If the sentry spots the characters sneaking up, or if it 
is not silenced during the surprise round, the orc retreats 
back to the cave to warn the others. 

The marauders in the cave include Brughor Axe- 
Biter (an orc with 30 hit points), six ordinary ores, and 
a filthy ogre named Gog. Gog fights until slain, while 
the ores fight until Brughor is killed, at which point any 
remaining ores flee. 

Treasure