# Chunk 82 of 140
---

The characters gain experience for successfully 
persuading Agatha to answer a question. If they do, divide 
200 XP equally among the characters. 


Where’s the Map? 

No maps are provided for Agatha's lair, Old Owl Well, orWyvern 
Tor. These adventure locations contain only one or two points 
of interest, and you don’t need maps to run the encounters 
effectively. If you feel the need for a map, create your own using 
the adventure text as a guide. 



Old Owl Well 

Built thousands of years ago by a long-vanished empire, 
Old Owl Well is a ruined watchtower that now consists 
of little more than a few crumbling walls and the broken 
stump of a tower. In the tower’s courtyard stands an old 
well that still delivers clean, fresh water. Old Owl Well lies 
in the wild and rugged hills south of the Triboar Trail. The 
site is relatively easy to find, and any NPC in Phandalin 
can provide directions to the ruins. 

Recently, prospectors in the area have noted that 
someone has set up a campsite at Old Owl Well, and that 
undead guardians have been posted to keep intruders out. 

As you crest a low ridge, you spy the crumbling ruins of an 
old watchtower standing amid the rugged hills. The place is 
so old that the walls are only mounds of rubble enclosing a 
courtyard of sorts, adjacent to the broken stump of an old 
tower. A colorful tent has been set up in the middle of the 
courtyard, but no one is in sight. 


site from any direction, either following old footpaths 
or scrambling up the slope and finding a gap in the 
surrounding walls of rubble. 

Twelve zombies lurk inside the crumbled shell of the old 
watchtower and can’t be seen from outside. However, any 
character with a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 10 
or higher smells a deathly odor wafting from the tower’s 
direction. When characters approach the tower or the tent, 
the zombies shamble out of the tower. 

If a battle erupts, Hamun Kost, the evil mage, emerges 
from his tent and asks, “What is the meaning of this?” 

Kost is a stout, red-robed figure with sallow skin, 
a shaved scalp, and a black tattoo on his forehead. A 
character who succeeds on a DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check recognizes Kost’s tattoo as a necromantic symbol. 

A successful DC 10 Intelligence (History) check verifies 
the garb as that usual for Thay, a land far to the east where 
wizards pattern their flesh with tattoos. The tattoo on the 
head represents a wizard’s school of magic. Kost’s school 
is necromancy. 

If any character attempts to talk to Kost, even by calling 
out a greeting or answering his questions during combat, 
he temporarily calls off his zombies. The Red Wizard is 
not particularly aggressive, and he is willing to strike a 
deal that advances his interests at the same time it helps 
the characters.