# Chunk 90 of 140
---

The interior of the building still contains furnishings, 
and the main room has a ladder leading through a 
trapdoor to the roof. The chamber to the north contains 
two double bunks, while the chamber to the south has 
three double bunks, providing quarters for ten soldiers 
altogether. To the northwest of the main area of the 
barracks was a kitchen and pantry, now containing 
piles of well-rotted sacks and barrels that once held 
salted meat. All the foodstuffs have long since been 
devoured by vermin. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 250 XP equally among the characters if the party 

destroys the ash zombies. 

12. Weaver’s Cottage 

This fallen cottage is a lure for the creatures 
that lair nearby. 


Heaps of wreckage litter the interior of this ruin. In one corner 
stands a broken loom. 


Six twig blights lurk in the thicket south of this ruin. 
Allow each character to attempt a Wisdom (Perception) 
check contested by the blights’ Dexterity (Stealth) check to 
avoid being surprised by them. 

Developments 

Any loud noises here alert the cultists in area 13, who 
quietly and cautiously investigate. 

Awarding Experience Points 

Divide 150 XP equally among the characters if the party 
destroys the twig blights. 

13. Dragon Cultists 

A group calling itself the Cult of the Dragon seeks to forge 
alliances with powerful dragons of the Sword Coast. 
Toward that end, four cultists recently tracked a green 
dragon to Thundertree (see area 7) and are waiting for 
the right moment to approach the dragon and broker an 
alliance. They have been spying on the dragon from afar, 
trying to gauge its demeanor and its needs. 


This small farmhouse appears to be just another empty home 
at first glance. However, all the doors are shut and windows 
shuttered. 


The doors to this cottage are barred from the inside, 
requiring a successful DC 20 Strength check to force 
open. The shutters are also barred from inside and can be 
forced with a successful DC 15 Strength check. 

Six human cultists are hiding in the house. Four stand 
guard (two in each room) while the others rest in the 
larger chamber. The cultists wear black cloaks cut to 
resemble dragon wings, and black leather masks with 
stylized dragon horns. In addition to the Common tongue, 
these cultists speak Draconic. 

The interior of the house is dusty and strung with 
cobwebs. The only furnishings are a small stove, a table, 
two chairs, and a bunk (which the cultists share). 

Roleplaying the Cultists 

The cultists are not interested in fighting anyone and 
prefer to be left alone. The leader of the group is an evil 
and ambitious young man named Favric, who hopes to 
rise through the ranks quickly by earning the allegiance of 
the green dragon in area 7. His fellow cultists lack Favric’s 
ambition and flee if he is captured or killed.