# Chunk 76 of 140
---

Books and Notes. Iarno is trying to master the art of 
brewing potions and concocting alchemical mixtures. The 
books and notes scattered around the room are basic texts 
on alchemy. Any character proficient in Arcana can see 
that Iarno’s apparatus appears to be set up to brew potions 
of invisibility— not that he has succeeded so far. 

Among the books is a tome written in Dwarvish. The 
journal of an adventurer named Urmon, it describes the 
history of the Lost Mine of Phandelver and the Forge of 
Spells. (Share the information in the first and second 
paragraph of the “Background” section if you have not 
already done so.) In addition, Urmon records that a magic 


mace named Lightbringer was commissioned by priests 
of Lathander, the god of dawn, from the mages working 
with the gnomes and dwarves of the Phandelver’s Pact. 
The mace was lost when Wave Echo Cave and its mine 
vanished from history. (Characters might find the mace in 
part 4, “Wave Echo Cave.”) 

Developments 

Because Iarno and his rat familiar share a telepathic bond, 
the mage (in area 12) knows the characters are coming 
and has time to prepare for them. 

Treasure 

Most of the materials in this room have no value, but three 
small bottles hold rare reagents: mercury, dragon bile, and 
powdered nightshade. These are worth 25 gp each to an 
apothecary or alchemist. 

12. Glasstaff’s Quarters 

If the characters approach this room through the secret 
passage from area 7, they can surprise the leader of the 
Redbrands— Iarno “Glasstaff” Albrek. Otherwise, his rat 
familiar warns him of any who approach through area 11, 
and he flees before the characters arrive. 

The walls of this bedchamber are covered with drapes of 
scarlet cloth. The furnishings include a small writing desk 
with matching chair, a comfortable-looking bed, and a 
wooden chest at the foot of the bed. 

If Iarno is surprised, add the following paragraph: 

Sitting at the desk is a short, dark-bearded human male in 
robes, studying a tome. He wears a princely mantle of ermine. 

A beautiful glass stafFleans against his chair, within easy 
reach. 

If the rat in area 1 1 warns him that trouble is approaching, 
Iarno the evil mage grabs his staff of defense (see 
appendix A) and the scrolls in his chest (see the 
“Treasure” section), and flees through the secret door 
in the northeast corner of the room. In his haste, Iarno 
leaves behind a letter from the Black Spider (see the 
“Developments” section) and neglects to make sure 
the secret door is closed all the way. Characters gain 
advantage on ability checks made to find the slightly ajar 
secret door (see “Advantage and Disadvantage” in the 
rulebook). For more information on secret doors, see the 
“General Features” section (page 20).