# Chunk 118 of 140
---

MAGIC ITEMS 



Appendix B: Monsters 


This section contains stat blocks and short descriptions for 
the creatures that appear in Lost Mine of Phandelver. 

Statistics 

A creature’s stat block provides the essential information 
that you, as the DM, need to run the creature. 

Size 

Each creature takes up a different amount of space. The 
Size Categories table shows how much space a creature 
of a particular size controls in combat. Objects sometimes 
use the same size categories. 

Size Categories 


Size 

Space 

Tiny 

2Vi by 2V2 ft. 

Small 

5 by 5 ft. 

Medium 

5 by 5 ft. 

Large 

10 by 10 ft. 

Space 



A creature’s space is the area in feet that it effectively 
controls in combat, not an expression of its physical 
dimensions. A typical Medium creature isn’t 5 feet wide, 
for example, but it does control a space that wide. If a 
Medium hobgoblin stands in a 5-foot-wide doorway, other 
creatures can’t get through unless the hobgoblin lets them. 

Squeezing into a Smaller Space 

A creature can squeeze through a space large enough for 
a creature one size smaller than itself. When squeezing 
through such a space, the creature’s speed is halved. 

While squeezing, a creature has disadvantage on attack 
rolls and Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls against 
it have advantage. 

Type 

A creature’s type speaks to its fundamental nature. 

The following types of monsters can be encountered in 
this adventure. 

Aberrations. Utterly alien beings that have no place in the 
natural world. 

Beasts. Nonhumanoid creatures that, like real-world 
animals, are a normal part of the world’s ecology. 
Dragons. Large, winged, reptilian creatures of ancient 
origin and tremendous power. 

Giants. Humanoid-like creatures that tower over humans 
and their kin. 

Humanoids. Bipedal peoples of the civilized and savage 
world, including humans and a tremendous variety of 
other races, including dwarves and elves. 
Monstrosities. Frightening creatures that sometimes 
resemble beasts but that are often touched by magic and 
almost never benign. 

Oozes. Gelatinous creatures that generally have no fixed 
shape. They are mostly subterranean, dwelling in caves 
and dungeons. 

Plants. Plant creatures, as opposed to ordinary plants, 
have some degree of sentience and mobility. 


Undead. Once-living creatures brought to a horrifying 
state of undeath through the practice of necromantic 
magic or some unholy curse. 

Tags 

A creature might have one or more tags appended to 
its type, in parentheses. For example, an ore has the 
humanoid (ore) type. These parenthetical tags provide an 
additional layer of categorization for certain monsters, but 
they have no bearing on how a monster is used in combat. 

Alignment 

A creature’s alignment provides a clue to its disposition.