# Chunk 60 of 140
---

Barthen’s is the biggest trading post in Phandalin. Its 
shelves stock most ordinary goods and supplies, including 
backpacks, bedrolls, rope, and rations. The place is open 
from sunup to sundown. Barthen’s does not stock weapons 
or armor, but characters can purchase other adventuring 
gear here, with the exception of items that cost more 
than 25 gp. (For prices, see “Adventuring Gear” in the 
rulebook.) Characters in need of weapons or armor are 
directed to the Lionshield Coster (see that section). 

The proprietor is Elmar Barthen, a lean and balding 
human male shopkeeper of fifty years with a kindly 
manner. He employs a couple young clerks (Ander and 
Thistle) who help load and unload wagons, and who wait 
on customers when Barthen isn’t around. 

Delivering the Supplies . If the characters began play 
with the “Meet Me in Phandalin” adventure hook, their 
orders are to deliver the wagon of supplies to Barthen’s. 
Barthen pays the agreed amount (10 gp to each character) 
and takes possession of the wagon and its supplies. If 
the characters tell him of Gundren Rockseeker’s capture, 
Barthen is saddened by the news and encourages the 
party to find and rescue the dwarf. He considers Gundren 
a friend and was excited by talk of discovering the lost 
mine of the Phandelver’s Pact in the nearby hills. If the 
party hasn’t already learned details of the mine from 
Sildar Hallwinter, a character who succeeds on a DC 15 
Intelligence (History) check can relate the information 
from the first two paragraphs of the “Background” section 
at the start of the adventure. 

Barthen also mentions that two more Rockseeker 
brothers, Nundro and Tharden, are camped somewhere 
outside town. Barthen hasn’t seen them in a tenday and 
expects the brothers to return “any day now” to resupply. 
What Barthen doesn’t know is that Tharden is dead and 
Nundro is a prisoner in the mine. See part 4, the “Wave 
Echo Cave” section, for more information. 

Barthen f s News. If the characters ask Barthen how 
business is going, the shopkeeper tells them that the 
Redbrands are making it hard on everyone, shaking down 
local businesses and flouting the townmaster’s authority. 

If the characters seem of a mind to do something about 
it, he tells them that the Redbrands frequent the Sleeping 
Giant tap house. 


Edermath Orchard 

Daran Edermath is a retired adventurer who lives in a 
tidy little cottage beside an apple orchard. A fit, silver- 
haired half-elf well over a hundred years old, Daran is a 
fighter who served as a marshal and herald for many years 
in the lands of the Dragon Coast, far to the southeast. 

Upon retiring, he returned to the Neverwinter region, his 
original home.