# Chunk 55 of 140
---

The captured stores are bulky, and the characters will 
need a wagon to transport them. If they return the 
supplies to the Lionshield Coster in Phandalin (see part 
2, “Phandalin”), they earn a reward of 50 gp and the 
friendship of Linene and her company. 

In addition to the stolen provisions, Klarg has a treasure 
chest that contains 600 cp, 110 sp, two potions of healing, 
and a jade statuette of a frog with tiny golden orbs for 
eyes (40 gp). The frog statuette is small enough to fit in a 
pocket or pouch. 

What’s Next? 

The next stage of the adventure takes place in Phandalin. 
The adventurers should have plenty of reasons to visit 
the town: 

• If the characters began with the “Meet Me in Phandalin” 
adventure hook, they can be paid by Barthen’s 
Provisions for delivering the wagonload of supplies. 

• If the characters rescued Sildar Hallwinter, the 
wounded warrior would appreciate an escort to 
Phandalin (and will pay 50 gp for the service). 

• Details contained within the characters’ backgrounds 
might prompt them to seek out specific NPCs in the town. 

It’s also possible that players might decide to do 
something different, such as striking out in search of 
Cragmaw Castle (in part 3 of the adventure). If that’s the 
case, skip ahead to that section. 

Awarding Experience Points 
Exploring the Cragmaw hideout and defeating Klarg 
and his allies completes a story milestone. Award each 
character 275 XP. This should provide enough XP for the 
characters to attain 2nd level. 

Level advancement rules for characters are provided on 
loose sheets included in this set. Hand these sheets to the 
players, and allow them to advance their characters to 2nd 
level before continuing the adventure. Make sure they’ve 
recorded their XP totals on their character sheets. 

In the next part of the adventure, you’ll award XP 
differently. The characters will earn experience points 
based on the monsters and traps they overcome, the NPCs 
they interact with, and the goals they accomplish. 

If the adventurers come up with a nonviolent way to 
neutralize the threat that a monster poses, award them 
experience points as if they had defeated it. 



12 


PART 1: GOBLIN ARROWS 





The frontier town of Phandalin is built on the ruins of a 
much older settlement. Hundreds of years ago, the old 
Phandalin was a thriving human town whose people 
were firmly allied with the dwarves and gnomes of the 
Phandelver’s Pact. However, the same ore horde that 
sacked the mines at Wave Echo Cave laid waste to the 
settlement, and Phandalin was abandoned for centuries.