# Chunk 114 of 140
---

Every adventure holds the promise— but not a guarantee— 
of finding one or more magic items. Lost Mine of 
Phandelver contains an assortment of magic items that 
hints at the wider variety of magic items waiting to be 
found in the worlds of D&amp;D. See the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for many more items. 

Using a Magic Item 

A magic item’s description explains how the item works. 
Handling a magic item is enough to give a character a 
sense that something is extraordinary about the item. 
Casting the identify spell on the item then reveals its 
properties. Alternatively, a character can concentrate 
on the item during a short rest, while being in physical 
contact with the item. At the end of the rest, the character 
learns the item’s properties. Potions are an exception; a 
little taste is enough to tell the taster what the potion does. 

Certain magic items require a user to attune to them 
before their magical properties can be used. Attuning 
to a magic item requires that you spend a short rest 
concentrating on it (this can’t be the same short rest 
used to learn an item’s properties). Depending on the 
nature of the item, this concentration can take the form of 
prayers, weapon practice, or meditation. In any case, the 
concentration period must be uninterrupted. Once you are 
attuned to an item, you can use its magical properties. 

An item can be attuned to only one creature at a time. A 
creature can be attuned to no more than three magic items 
at any given time, and you can attune yourself to only one 
item during a short rest. 

Your attunement to an item ends when the item has been 
more than 100 feet away from you for 24 hours and when 
you die. You can also voluntarily end your attunement to 
an item with another short rest. 


Item Descriptions 

+1 Armor 

The most basic form of magic armor is a superb product 
of physical and magical craft. You have a +1 bonus to your 
Armor Class while wearing this armor. 

A suit of + 1 armor never rusts or deteriorates, and it 
magically resizes to fit its wearer. 

+1 Weapon 

Magic weapons are unmistakably finer in quality than 
their ordinary counterparts. You have a +1 bonus to the 
attack rolls and damage rolls you make with this weapon. 

Some +1 weapons (swords in particular) have additional 
properties, such as shedding light. 

Boots of Striding and Springing 
Your speed while you wear these boots becomes 30 feet, 
unless your walking speed is higher, and your speed is not 
reduced if you are encumbered or wearing heavy armor. 

In addition, whenever you jump, you can jump three times 
the normal distance. 

Gauntlets of Ogre Power 
While you wear these gauntlets, your Strength becomes 
19. If your Strength is already 19 or higher, the gauntlets 
have no effect on you. 

Potion of Flying