# Chunk 78 of 140
---

At the foot of Iarno’s bed is a sturdy, unlocked wooden 
chest holding the best pickings of the Redbrands’ loot 
over the last two months. It contains 180 sp, 130 gp, 
and a silk pouch containing five carnelians (10 gp each), 
two peridots (15 gp each), and one pearl (100 gp). It 
also contains two magic items that Iarno brought with 
him from Neverwinter: a scroll of charm person and a 
scroll of fireball. 

Iarno also wields a staff of defense (see appendix A). 


Awarding Experience Points 
Divide 200 XP equally among the characters if the party 
slays Iarno Albrek. Double the XP award if they capture 
Iarno and deliver him to Sildar Hallwinter in Phandalin. 


What’s Next? 


The next stage of the adventure continues with part 3, 
“The Spider’s Web,” in which the characters undertake 
a number of short adventures that advance the story. At 
some point during part 2, the characters are likely to 
advance to 3rd level, so make sure the players are keeping 
track of their XP. 


instead assembled a group of outlaws 
and local ruffians to secure his own 
position in town. 

Iarno knew of the Black Spider 
through his contacts in the Lords’ 
Alliance and brokered a meeting. The 
drow promised to share the secrets 
and wealth of the Forge of Spells 
with the wizard in exchange for his 
help and loyalty. 

Iarno puts on airs of gentility and 
courteous manners, addressing his 
ruffians as “my good gentlemen,” 
and referring to sordid acts such 
as kidnapping or arson as “that 
unpleasant little business” or “those 
unfortunate events.” He refers to the 
characters as “guests” and expresses 
regret that he cannot provide suitable 
entertainment for their visit. Beneath 
his genteel demeanor, however, Iarno 
is just as thuggish and arrogant as any 
Redbrand outlaws. 

If threatened, Iarno uses his staff 
of defense to cast mage armor on 
himself. He then casts offensive spells 
at enemies he can see. larno’s stat 
block contains a list of the spells he 
has prepared. For descriptions of 
those spells and their effects, see the 
rulebook. Iarno uses the shield power of 
his staff for added protection. 

If he is reduced to 8 or fewer hit 
points and has no avenues of escape, 
Iarno surrenders. He values his life 
more than anything, and he remains 
a model prisoner in the hopes that 
the Black Spider will somehow learn 
of his predicament and “arrange for 
his freedom.” 

If he is questioned while in captivity, 
Iarno relates the following information, 
all of which is true: 



In this part of the adventure, the characters follow up on 
existing leads and lines of inquiry. They can’t learn much 
more in Phandalin, so they need to set out into the forests 
and hills surrounding the town to uncover the larger plots 
they are caught up in. The characters are not required to 
visit all the locations in this section.