# Chunk 64 of 140
---

The shrine is in the care of a scholarly acolyte named 
Sister Garaele, a zealous young elf who despairs of ever 
ridding Phandalin of the Redbrands. Sister Garaele 
is a member of the Harpers, a scattered network of 
adventurers and spies who advocate equality and 
covertly oppose the abuse of power. The Harpers gather 
information throughout the land to thwart tyrants and 
any leader, government, or group that grows too strong. 
They aid the weak, the poor, and the oppressed. Sister 
Garaele regularly reports to her superiors on events in and 
around Phandalin. 

Quest: The Banshee’s Bargain. Recently, Garaele’s 
superiors asked her to undertake a delicate mission. 

They wanted her to persuade a banshee named Agatha to 
answer a question about a spellbook. Garaele sought out 
Agatha in her lair, but the creature did not appear for her. 

Garaele desires an intermediary to bring Agatha a 
suitable gift, a jeweled silver comb, and persuade the 
creature to tell what she knows about the location of 


a spellbook belonging to a legendary mage named 
Bowgentle. Sister Garaele believes that a character who 
flatters Agatha’s vanity might be able to trade the comb 
for an answer. She offers the quest to the characters and 
offers them three potions of healing as payment for their 
efforts. If the party pursues this quest, see “Conyberry and 
Agatha’s Lair” (page 28). 

Joining the Harpers 

If the party helps Garaele learn the fate of Bowgentle’s 
spellbook, the elf privately approaches certain members 
of the group to urge them to join the Harpers. She speaks 
with those who exemplify the virtues of the network 
and possess a desire to enact positive change through 
information and secrecy. If a character agrees, Sister 
Garaele awards the individual the title of Watcher. 

The Sleeping Giant 

This rundown tap house is a dirty, dangerous watering 
hole at the end of Phandalin’s main street. It is frequented 
by Redbrand thugs and operated by a surly female dwarf 
named Grista. If the characters choose to visit the place, 
run the “Redbrand Ruffians” encounter. 

Townmaster’s Hall 

The townmaster’s hall has sturdy stone walls, a pitched 
wooden roof, and a bell tower at the back. Posted on a board 
next to the front door is a notice written in Common. It reads: 
“REWARD — Ores near Wyvern Tor! Those of a mind to face 
the ore menace should inquire within.” The notice bears the 
town’s seal and an indecipherable signature. 

Phandalin has no functioning government, but the 
townsfolk elect someone to serve as townmaster each 
year. The townmaster serves as a judge in minor disputes 
and keeps any records that need to be kept. The current 
townmaster is a male human banker named Harbin 
Wester— a fat, pompous old fool. Completely intimidated 
by the Redbrands, he claims that they’re “just a mercenary 
guild, and not all that much trouble, really.”