# Chunk 44 of 140
---

If you are using the “Meet Me in Phandalin” adventure 
hook, then any character who approaches to make a 
closer investigation can identify the horses as belonging 
to Gundren Rockseeker and Sildar Hallwinter. They’ve 
been dead about a day, and it’s clear that arrows killed the 
horses. When the characters inspect the scene closer, read 
the following: 

The saddlebags have been looted. Nearby lies an empty 
leather map case. 

Four goblins are hiding in the woods, two on each side of 
the road. They wait until someone approaches the bodies 
and then attack. 

This will likely be the first of many combat encounters in 
the adventure. Here are the steps you should follow to run 
it effectively: 


PART 1 : GOB LI N ARROWS 


• Review the goblin stat block in appendix B. Since the 
goblins are hiding, you’ll need to know their Stealth skill 
modifier: +6. 

• Check to see who, if anyone, is surprised. The party can- 
not surprise the goblins, but the goblins might surprise 
some or all the characters. Make a Dexterity (Stealth) 
check for the goblins, rolling once for all of them. Roll 

a d20, add the goblins’ Stealth skill modifier (+6) to the 
roll, and compare the result to the characters’ passive 
Wisdom (Perception) scores. Any character whose score 
is lower than the goblins’ check result is surprised and 
loses his or her turn during the first round of combat 
(see “Surprise” in the rulebook). 

• Use the initiative rules in the rulebook to determine who 
acts first, second, third, and so on. Keep track of every- 
one’s initiative count in the margins of this book or on a 
separate piece of paper. 

• When the time comes for the goblins to act, two of them 
rush forward and make melee attacks while two goblins 
stand 30 feet away from the party and make ranged 
attacks. The goblins’ stat block contains the information 
you need to resolve these attacks. For more information 
on what the goblins can do on their turn, see chapter 2, 
“Combat,” in the rulebook. 

• When three goblins are defeated, the last goblin 
attempts to flee, heading for the goblin trail. 

Developments 

In the unlikely event that the goblins defeat the 
adventurers, they leave them unconscious, loot them and 
the wagon, then head back to the Cragmaw hideout. The 
characters can continue on to Phandalin, buy new gear at 
Barthen’s Provisions, return to the ambush site, and find 
the goblins’ trail. 

The characters might capture one or more goblins by 
knocking them unconscious instead of killing them. A 
character can use any melee weapon to knock a goblin 
unconscious, succeeding if the attack deals enough 
damage to drop the goblin to 0 hit points. Once it regains 
consciousness after a few minutes, a captured goblin 
can be convinced to share what it knows (see the “What 
the Goblins Know” sidebar on page 8). A goblin can also 
be persuaded to lead the party to the Cragmaw hideout 
while avoiding traps along the way (see the “Goblin 
Trail” section).