# Chunk 57 of 140
---

• Stonehill Inn. If the characters have Sildar Hallwinter 
with them, the knight suggests heading for this inn to 
find lodgings. If the characters are otherwise looking for 
a place to eat and sleep, they discover that the Stonehill 
appears to be the best available option. 

Encounters in Phandalin 

When the characters explore Phandalin, you don’t need 
to keep track of how much time is spent at each location. 
Instead, imagine that you’re directing an old-style 
western movie. Your goal is to present several scenes in 
which the adventurers walk into a store or saloon and 
meet the people there. By interacting with these NPCs, 
the adventurers learn what the NPCs need or what 
information they want to share, then can move on to the 
next location. These scenes are a series of roleplaying 
encounters that take place over the course of a couple of 
days of game time. 

To begin, ask the players where they want to go and 
what they want to do in town. For example, you could tell 
them, “There’s an inn, a town hall, a shrine, general stores 
and trading posts, and a few other homes and businesses. 
Where do you want to go?” When the players pick a spot, 
refer to the description in the following section, introduce 
the NPCs there, and let the interaction begin. 

The Stonehill Inn, If the players aren’t sure what 
their characters should do, encourage them to begin at 
the Stonehill Inn. The NPCs there are “pointers” who 
can direct the characters toward the various adventure 
opportunities and important rumors that can be found in 
other parts of the town. By visiting the inn, the characters 
learn what other places they should visit. 


1 

l 

i 


14 


PART 2: PHANDALIN 


Redbrand Ruffians. Sooner or later, the adventurers 
run into the thugs who run Phandalin. All you need to do 
is choose when the ruffians appear. After the characters 
have had a chance to visit several locations in town and 
talk to the townsfolk, they might decide to go looking 
for the Redbrands. When they do, run the “Redbrand 
Ruffians" encounter. Alternatively, if the characters are 
reluctant to seek out the ruffians, the Redbrands can come 
looking for them at a time of your choosing. 

Finding Cragmaw Castle. The characters might want 
to seek out Cragmaw Castle to find and rescue Gundren 
Rockseeker. Most of the townsfolk are preoccupied with 
the Redbrands. and no one in town knows the location of 
Cragmaw Castle. Qelline Alderleaf, Sildar Hallwinter, and 
Halia Thornton can offer suggestions on how the party 
might find someone who knows the location. 


Important NPCs 

Here is a quick summary of the most important NPCs in 
Phandalin. and their relevance to the adventure. 


Toblen Stonehill 
Elmar Barthen 

Daran Edermath 
Linene Graywind 
Halia Thornton 
Qelline Alderleaf 

Sister Garaele 
Harbin Wester 
Sildar Hallwinter 


Innkeeper